<!--
This file is generated by a tool. Do not edit directly.
For open-source contributions the docs will be updated automatically.
-->

*Last updated: 2022-05-30.*

<div itemscope itemtype="http://developers.google.com/ReferenceObject">
<meta itemprop="name" content="tf_quant_finance.math.pde.grids.rectangular_grid" />
<meta itemprop="path" content="Stable" />
</div>

# tf_quant_finance.math.pde.grids.rectangular_grid

<!-- Insert buttons and diff -->

<table class="tfo-notebook-buttons tfo-api" align="left">
</table>

<a target="_blank" href="https://github.com/google/tf-quant-finance/blob/master/tf_quant_finance/math/pde/grids.py">View source</a>



Specifies parameters for an axis-wise non-uniform grid in n-dimensions.

```python
tf_quant_finance.math.pde.grids.rectangular_grid(
    axis_locations, dtype=None, name=None
)
```



<!-- Placeholder for "Used in" -->

This specifies rectangular grids formed by taking the cartesian product
of points along each axis. For example, in two dimensions, one may specify
a grid by specifying points along the x-axis as [0.0, 1.0, 1.3] and along the
y-axis by [3.0, 3.6, 4.3, 7.0]. Taking the cartesian product of the two,
produces a 3 x 4 grid which is rectangular but non-uniform along each axis.

The points along each axis should be in ascending order and there must be at
least two points specified along each axis. If `validate_args` is set to
True, both these conditions are explicitly verified.

#### Args:


* <b>`axis_locations`</b>: A Python iterable of rank 1 real `Tensor`s. The number of
  `Tensor`s in the list is the dimension of the grid. The i'th element
  specifies the coordinates of the points of the grid along that axis. Each
  `Tensor` must have at least two elements.
* <b>`dtype`</b>: Optional tf.dtype. The default dtype to use for the grid..
* <b>`name`</b>: Python str. The name prefixed to the ops created by this class. If not
  supplied, the default name 'rectangular_grid' is used.


#### Returns:

The grid locations as projected along each axis. One `Tensor` of shape
`[..., n]`, where `n` is the number of points along that axis. The first
dimensions are the batch shape. The grid itself can be seen as a cartesian
product of the locations array.



#### Raises:

ValueError if `axis_locations` is empty.
