<!--
This file is generated by a tool. Do not edit directly.
For open-source contributions the docs will be updated automatically.
-->

*Last updated: 2022-05-30.*

<div itemscope itemtype="http://developers.google.com/ReferenceObject">
<meta itemprop="name" content="tf_quant_finance.math.pde.grids.uniform_grid" />
<meta itemprop="path" content="Stable" />
</div>

# tf_quant_finance.math.pde.grids.uniform_grid

<!-- Insert buttons and diff -->

<table class="tfo-notebook-buttons tfo-api" align="left">
</table>

<a target="_blank" href="https://github.com/google/tf-quant-finance/blob/master/tf_quant_finance/math/pde/grids.py">View source</a>



Creates a grid spec for a uniform grid.

```python
tf_quant_finance.math.pde.grids.uniform_grid(
    minimums, maximums, sizes, dtype=None, validate_args=False, name=None
)
```



<!-- Placeholder for "Used in" -->

A uniform grid is characterized by having a constant gap between neighboring
points along each axis.

Note that the shape of all three parameters must be fully defined and equal
to each other. The shape is used to determine the dimension of the grid.

#### Args:


* <b>`minimums`</b>: Real `Tensor` of rank 1 containing the lower end points of the
  grid. Must have the same shape as those of `maximums` and `sizes` args.
* <b>`maximums`</b>: `Tensor` of the same dtype and shape as `minimums`. The upper
  endpoints of the grid.
* <b>`sizes`</b>: Integer `Tensor` of the same shape as `minimums`. The size of the
  grid in each axis. Each entry must be greater than or equal to 2 (i.e. the
  sizes include the end points). For example, if minimums = [0.] and
  maximums = [1.] and sizes = [3], the grid will have three points at [0.0,
  0.5, 1.0].
* <b>`dtype`</b>: Optional tf.dtype. The default dtype to use for the grid.
* <b>`validate_args`</b>: Python boolean indicating whether to validate the supplied
  arguments. The validation checks performed are (a) `maximums` > `minimums`
  (b) `sizes` >= 2.
* <b>`name`</b>: Python str. The name prefixed to the ops created by this function. If
  not supplied, the default name 'uniform_grid_spec' is used.


#### Returns:

The grid locations as projected along each axis. One `Tensor` of shape
`[..., n]`, where `n` is the number of points along that axis. The first
dimensions are the batch shape. The grid itself can be seen as a cartesian
product of the locations array.



#### Raises:

ValueError if the shape of maximums, minimums and sizes are not fully
defined or they are not identical to each other or they are not rank 1.
