<!--
This file is generated by a tool. Do not edit directly.
For open-source contributions the docs will be updated automatically.
-->

*Last updated: 2022-05-30.*

<div itemscope itemtype="http://developers.google.com/ReferenceObject">
<meta itemprop="name" content="tf_quant_finance.math.interpolation.linear.interpolate" />
<meta itemprop="path" content="Stable" />
</div>

# tf_quant_finance.math.interpolation.linear.interpolate

<!-- Insert buttons and diff -->

<table class="tfo-notebook-buttons tfo-api" align="left">
</table>

<a target="_blank" href="https://github.com/google/tf-quant-finance/blob/master/tf_quant_finance/math/interpolation/linear/linear_interpolation.py">View source</a>



Performs linear interpolation for supplied points.

```python
tf_quant_finance.math.interpolation.linear.interpolate(
    x, x_data, y_data, left_slope=None, right_slope=None, validate_args=False,
    optimize_for_tpu=False, dtype=None, name=None
)
```



<!-- Placeholder for "Used in" -->

Given a set of knots whose x- and y- coordinates are in `x_data` and `y_data`,
this function returns y-values for x-coordinates in `x` via piecewise
linear interpolation.

`x_data` must be non decreasing, but `y_data` don't need to be because we do
not require the function approximated by these knots to be monotonic.

#### Examples

```python
import tf_quant_finance as tff
x = [-10, -1, 1, 3, 6, 7, 8, 15, 18, 25, 30, 35]
x_data = [-1, 2, 6, 8, 18, 30.0]
y_data = [10, -1, -5, 7, 9, 20]

tff.math.interpolation.linear.interpolate(x, x_data, y_data,
                                          dtype=tf.float64)
# Expected: [ 10, 10, 2.66666667, -2, -5, 1, 7, 8.4, 9, 15.41666667, 20, 20]
```

#### Args:


* <b>`x`</b>: x-coordinates for which we need to get interpolation. A N-D
  `Tensor` of real dtype. First N-1 dimensions represent batching
  dimensions.
* <b>`x_data`</b>: x coordinates. A N-D `Tensor` of real dtype. Should be sorted
  in non decreasing order. First N-1 dimensions represent batching
  dimensions.
* <b>`y_data`</b>: y coordinates. A N-D `Tensor` of real dtype. Should have the
  compatible shape as `x_data`. First N-1 dimensions represent batching
  dimensions.
* <b>`left_slope`</b>: The slope to use for extrapolation with x-coordinate smaller
  than the min `x_data`. It's a 0-D or N-D `Tensor`.
  Default value: `None`, which maps to `0.0` meaning constant extrapolation,
  i.e. extrapolated value will be the leftmost `y_data`.
* <b>`right_slope`</b>: The slope to use for extrapolation with x-coordinate greater
  than the max `x_data`. It's a 0-D or N-D `Tensor`.
  Default value: `None` which maps to `0.0` meaning constant extrapolation,
  i.e. extrapolated value will be the rightmost `y_data`.
* <b>`validate_args`</b>: Python `bool` that indicates whether the function performs
  the check if the shapes of `x_data` and `y_data` are equal and that the
  elements in `x_data` are non decreasing. If this value is set to `False`
  and the elements in `x_data` are not increasing, the result of linear
  interpolation may be wrong.
  Default value: `False`.
* <b>`optimize_for_tpu`</b>: A Python bool. If `True`, the algorithm uses one-hot
  encoding to lookup indices of `x` in `x_data`. This significantly
  improves performance of the algorithm on a TPU device but may slow down
  performance on the CPU.
  Default value: `False`.
* <b>`dtype`</b>: Optional tf.dtype for `x`, x_data`, `y_data`, `left_slope` and
  `right_slope`.
  Default value: `None` which means that the `dtype` inferred from
    `x`.
* <b>`name`</b>: Python str. The name prefixed to the ops created by this function.
  Default value: `None` which maps to 'linear_interpolation'.


#### Returns:

A N-D `Tensor` of real dtype corresponding to the x-values in `x`.
