<!--
This file is generated by a tool. Do not edit directly.
For open-source contributions the docs will be updated automatically.
-->

*Last updated: 2022-05-30.*

<div itemscope itemtype="http://developers.google.com/ReferenceObject">
<meta itemprop="name" content="tf_quant_finance.models.hjm.calibration_from_swaptions" />
<meta itemprop="path" content="Stable" />
</div>

# tf_quant_finance.models.hjm.calibration_from_swaptions

<!-- Insert buttons and diff -->

<table class="tfo-notebook-buttons tfo-api" align="left">
</table>

<a target="_blank" href="https://github.com/google/tf-quant-finance/blob/master/tf_quant_finance/models/hjm/calibration.py">View source</a>



Calibrates a batch of HJM models using European Swaption prices.

```python
tf_quant_finance.models.hjm.calibration_from_swaptions(
    *, prices, expiries, floating_leg_start_times, floating_leg_end_times,
    fixed_leg_payment_times, floating_leg_daycount_fractions,
    fixed_leg_daycount_fractions, fixed_leg_coupon, reference_rate_fn,
    num_hjm_factors, mean_reversion, volatility, notional=None,
    is_payer_swaption=None, swaption_valuation_method=None, num_samples=1,
    random_type=None, seed=None, skip=0, times=None, time_step=None,
    num_time_steps=None, curve_times=None, time_step_finite_difference=None,
    num_grid_points_finite_difference=101, volatility_based_calibration=True,
    calibrate_correlation=True, optimizer_fn=None, mean_reversion_lower_bound=0.001,
    mean_reversion_upper_bound=0.5, volatility_lower_bound=1e-05,
    volatility_upper_bound=0.1, tolerance=1e-06, maximum_iterations=50, dtype=None,
    name=None
)
```



<!-- Placeholder for "Used in" -->

This function estimates the mean-reversion rates, volatility and correlation
parameters of a multi factor HJM model using a set of European swaption
prices as the target. The calibration is performed using least-squares
optimization where the loss function minimizes the squared error between the
target swaption prices (or volatilities) and the model implied swaption
prices (or volatilities). The current calibration supports constant mean
reversion, volatility and correlation parameters.

#### Example
The example shows how to calibrate a Two factor HJM model with constant mean
reversion rate and constant volatility.

````python
import numpy as np
import tensorflow.compat.v2 as tf
import tf_quant_finance as tff

dtype = tf.float64

expiries = np.array(
    [0.5, 0.5, 1.0, 1.0, 2.0, 2.0, 3.0, 3.0, 4.0, 4.0, 5.0, 5.0, 10., 10.])
float_leg_start_times = np.array([
    [0.5, 1.0, 1.5, 2.0, 2.5, 2.5, 2.5, 2.5, 2.5, 2.5],  # 6M x 2Y  swap
    [0.5, 1.0, 1.5, 2.0, 2.5, 3.0, 3.5, 4.0, 4.5, 5.0],  # 6M x 5Y  swap
    [1.0, 1.5, 2.0, 2.5, 3.0, 3.0, 3.0, 3.0, 3.0, 3.0],  # 1Y x 2Y  swap
    [1.0, 1.5, 2.0, 2.5, 3.0, 3.5, 4.0, 4.5, 5.0, 5.5],  # 1Y x 5Y  swap
    [2.0, 2.5, 3.0, 3.5, 4.0, 4.0, 4.0, 4.0, 4.0, 4.0],  # 2Y x 2Y  swap
    [2.0, 2.5, 3.0, 3.5, 4.0, 4.5, 5.0, 5.5, 6.0, 6.5],  # 2Y x 5Y  swap
    [3.0, 3.5, 4.0, 4.5, 5.0, 5.0, 5.0, 5.0, 5.0, 5.0],  # 3Y x 2Y  swap
    [3.0, 3.5, 4.0, 4.5, 5.0, 5.5, 6.0, 6.5, 7.0, 7.5],  # 3Y x 5Y  swap
    [4.0, 4.5, 5.0, 5.5, 6.0, 6.0, 6.0, 6.0, 6.0, 6.0],  # 4Y x 2Y  swap
    [4.0, 4.5, 5.0, 5.5, 6.0, 6.5, 7.0, 7.5, 8.0, 8.5],  # 4Y x 5Y  swap
    [5.0, 5.5, 6.0, 6.5, 7.0, 7.0, 7.0, 7.0, 7.0, 7.0],  # 5Y x 2Y  swap
    [5.0, 5.5, 6.0, 6.5, 7.0, 7.5, 8.0, 8.5, 9.0, 9.5],  # 5Y x 5Y  swap
    [10.0, 10.5, 11.0, 11.5, 12.0, 12.0, 12.0, 12.0, 12.0,
     12.0],  # 10Y x 2Y  swap
    [10.0, 10.5, 11.0, 11.5, 12.0, 12.5, 13.0, 13.5, 14.0,
     14.5]  # 10Y x 5Y  swap
])
float_leg_end_times = float_leg_start_times + 0.5
max_maturities = np.array(
    [2.5, 5.5, 3.0, 6.0, 4., 7., 5., 8., 6., 9., 7., 10., 12., 15.])
for i in range(float_leg_end_times.shape[0]):
  float_leg_end_times[i] = np.clip(
      float_leg_end_times[i], 0.0, max_maturities[i])

fixed_leg_payment_times = float_leg_end_times
float_leg_daycount_fractions = (
    float_leg_end_times - float_leg_start_times)
fixed_leg_daycount_fractions = float_leg_daycount_fractions
fixed_leg_coupon = 0.01 * np.ones_like(fixed_leg_payment_times)

zero_rate_fn = lambda x: 0.01 * tf.ones_like(x, dtype=dtype)
notional = 1.0
prices = np.array([
    0.42919881, 0.98046542, 0.59045074, 1.34909391, 0.79491583,
    1.81768802, 0.93210461, 2.13625342, 1.05114573, 2.40921088,
    1.12941064, 2.58857507, 1.37029637, 3.15081683])

(calibrated_mr, calibrated_vol, calibrated_corr), _, _ = (
tff.models.hjm.calibration_from_swaptions(
    prices=prices,
    expiries=expiries,
    floating_leg_start_times=float_leg_start_times,
    floating_leg_end_times=float_leg_end_times,
    fixed_leg_payment_times=fixed_leg_payment_times,
    floating_leg_daycount_fractions=float_leg_daycount_fractions,
    fixed_leg_daycount_fractions=fixed_leg_daycount_fractions,
    fixed_leg_coupon=fixed_leg_coupon,
    reference_rate_fn=zero_rate_fn,
    notional=100.,
    mean_reversion=[0.01, 0.01],  # Initial guess for mean reversion rate
    volatility=[0.005, 0.004],  # Initial guess for volatility
    volatility_based_calibration=True,
    calibrate_correlation=True,
    num_samples=2000,
    time_step=0.1,
    random_type=random.RandomType.STATELESS_ANTITHETIC,
    seed=[0,0],
    maximum_iterations=50,
    dtype=dtype))
# Expected calibrated_mr: [0.00621303, 0.3601772]
# Expected calibrated_vol: [0.00586125, 0.00384013]
# Expected correlation: 0.65126492
# Prices using calibrated model: [
    0.42939121, 0.95362327, 0.59186236, 1.32622752, 0.79575526,
    1.80457544, 0.93909176, 2.14336776, 1.04132595, 2.39385229,
    1.11770416, 2.58809336, 1.39557389, 3.29306317]
````

#### Args:


* <b>`prices`</b>: An N-D real `Tensor` of shape `batch_shape + [k]`. `batch_shape` is
  the shape of the batch of models to calibrate and `k` is the number of
  swaptions per calibration. The input represents the prices of swaptions
  used for calibration.
* <b>`expiries`</b>: A real `Tensor` of same shape and dtype as `prices`. The time to
  expiration of the swaptions.
* <b>`floating_leg_start_times`</b>: A real `Tensor` of the same dtype as `prices`. The
  times when accrual begins for each payment in the floating leg. The shape
  of this input should be `expiries.shape + [m]` where `m` denotes the
  number of floating payments in each leg.
* <b>`floating_leg_end_times`</b>: A real `Tensor` of the same dtype as `prices`. The
  times when accrual ends for each payment in the floating leg. The shape of
  this input should be `expiries.shape + [m]` where `m` denotes the number
  of floating payments in each leg.
* <b>`fixed_leg_payment_times`</b>: A real `Tensor` of the same dtype as `prices`. The
  payment times for each payment in the fixed leg. The shape of this input
  should be `expiries.shape + [n]` where `n` denotes the number of fixed
  payments in each leg.
* <b>`floating_leg_daycount_fractions`</b>: A real `Tensor` of the same dtype and
  compatible shape as `floating_leg_start_times`. The daycount fractions for
  each payment in the floating leg.
* <b>`fixed_leg_daycount_fractions`</b>: A real `Tensor` of the same dtype and
  compatible shape as `fixed_leg_payment_times`. The daycount fractions for
  each payment in the fixed leg.
* <b>`fixed_leg_coupon`</b>: A real `Tensor` of the same dtype and compatible shape as
  `fixed_leg_payment_times`. The fixed rate for each payment in the fixed
  leg.
* <b>`reference_rate_fn`</b>: A Python callable that accepts expiry time as a real
  `Tensor` and returns a `Tensor` of shape `input_shape`. Returns
  the continuously compounded zero rate at the present time for the input
  expiry time.
* <b>`num_hjm_factors`</b>: A Python scalar which corresponds to the number of factors
  in the batch of calibrated HJM models.
* <b>`mean_reversion`</b>: A real positive `Tensor` of same dtype as `prices` and shape
  `batch_shape  + [num_hjm_factors]`. Corresponds to the initial values of
  the mean reversion rates of the factors for calibration.
* <b>`volatility`</b>: A real positive `Tensor` of the same `dtype` and shape as
  `mean_reversion`. Corresponds to the initial values of the volatility of
  the factors for calibration.
* <b>`notional`</b>: An optional `Tensor` of same dtype and compatible shape as
  `strikes`specifying the notional amount for the underlying swap.
   Default value: None in which case the notional is set to 1.
* <b>`is_payer_swaption`</b>: A boolean `Tensor` of a shape compatible with `expiries`.
  Indicates whether the prices correspond to payer (if True) or receiver (if
  False) swaption. If not supplied, payer swaptions are assumed.
* <b>`swaption_valuation_method`</b>: An enum of type
  `valuation_method.ValuationMethod` specifying the method to be used for
  swaption valuation during calibration. Currently the valuation is
  supported using `MONTE_CARLO` and `FINITE_DIFFERENCE` methods. Valuation
  using finite difference is only supported for Gaussian HJM models, i.e.
  for models with constant mean-reversion rate and time-dependent
  volatility.
  Default value: `valuation_method.ValuationMethod.MONTE_CARLO`, in which
  case swaption valuation is done using Monte Carlo simulations.
* <b>`num_samples`</b>: Positive scalar `int32` `Tensor`. The number of simulation
  paths during Monte-Carlo valuation of swaptions. This input is ignored
  during analytic valuation.
  Default value: The default value is 1.
* <b>`random_type`</b>: Enum value of `RandomType`. The type of (quasi)-random number
  generator to use to generate the simulation paths. This input is relevant
  only for Monte-Carlo valuation and ignored during analytic valuation.
  Default value: `None` which maps to the standard pseudo-random numbers.
* <b>`seed`</b>: Seed for the random number generator. The seed is only relevant if
  `random_type` is one of `[STATELESS, PSEUDO, HALTON_RANDOMIZED,
  PSEUDO_ANTITHETIC, STATELESS_ANTITHETIC]`. For `PSEUDO`,
  `PSEUDO_ANTITHETIC` and `HALTON_RANDOMIZED` the seed should be an Python
  integer. For `STATELESS` and  `STATELESS_ANTITHETIC `must be supplied as
  an integer `Tensor` of shape `[2]`. This input is relevant only for
  Monte-Carlo valuation and ignored during analytic valuation.
  Default value: `None` which means no seed is set.
* <b>`skip`</b>: `int32` 0-d `Tensor`. The number of initial points of the Sobol or
  Halton sequence to skip. Used only when `random_type` is 'SOBOL',
  'HALTON', or 'HALTON_RANDOMIZED', otherwise ignored.
  Default value: `0`.
* <b>`times`</b>: An optional rank 1 `Tensor` of increasing positive real values. The
  times at which Monte Carlo simulations are performed. Relevant when
  swaption valuation is done using Monte Calro simulations.
  Default value: `None` in which case simulation times are computed based
  on either `time_step` or `num_time_steps` inputs.
* <b>`time_step`</b>: Scalar real `Tensor`. Maximal distance between time grid points
  in Euler scheme. Relevant when Euler scheme is used for simulation. This
  input is ignored during analytic valuation.
  Default value: `None`.
* <b>`num_time_steps`</b>: An optional scalar integer `Tensor` - a total number of
  time steps during Monte Carlo simulations. The maximal distance betwen
  points in grid is bounded by
  `times[-1] / (num_time_steps - times.shape[0])`.
  Either this or `time_step` should be supplied when the valuation method
  is Monte Carlo.
  Default value: `None`.
* <b>`curve_times`</b>: An optional rank 1 `Tensor` of positive real values. The
  maturities at which spot discount curve is computed during simulations.
  Default value: `None` in which case `curve_times` is computed based on
  swaption expities and `fixed_leg_payments_times` inputs.
* <b>`time_step_finite_difference`</b>: Scalar real `Tensor`. Spacing between time
  grid points in finite difference discretization. This input is only
  relevant for valuation using finite difference.
  Default value: `None`, in which case a `time_step` corresponding to 100
  discrete steps is used.
* <b>`num_grid_points_finite_difference`</b>: Scalar real `Tensor`. Number of spatial
  grid points for discretization. This input is only relevant for valuation
  using finite difference.
  Default value: 100.
* <b>`volatility_based_calibration`</b>: An optional Python boolean specifying whether
  calibration is performed using swaption implied volatilities. If the input
  is `True`, then the swaption prices are first converted to normal implied
  volatilities and calibration is performed by minimizing the error between
  input implied volatilities and model implied volatilities.
  Default value: True.
* <b>`calibrate_correlation`</b>: An optional Python boolean specifying if the
  correlation matrix between HJM factors should calibrated. If the input is
  `False`, then the model is calibrated assuming that the HJM factors are
  uncorrelated.
  Default value: True.
* <b>`optimizer_fn`</b>: Optional Python callable which implements the algorithm used
  to minimize the objective function during calibration. It should have
  the following interface:
  result = optimizer_fn(value_and_gradients_function, initial_position,
    tolerance, max_iterations)
  `value_and_gradients_function` is a Python callable that accepts a point
  as a real `Tensor` and returns a tuple of `Tensor`s of real dtype
  containing the value of the function and its gradient at that point.
  'initial_position' is a real `Tensor` containing the starting point of
  the optimization, 'tolerance' is a real scalar `Tensor` for stopping
  tolerance for the procedure and `max_iterations` specifies the maximum
  number of iterations.
  `optimizer_fn` should return a namedtuple containing the items: `position`
  (a tensor containing the optimal value), `converged` (a boolean
  indicating whether the optimize converged according the specified
  criteria), `failed` (a boolean indicating if the optimization resulted
  in a failure), `num_iterations` (the number of iterations used), and
  `objective_value` ( the value of the objective function at the optimal
  value). The default value for `optimizer_fn` is None and conjugate
  gradient algorithm is used.
* <b>`mean_reversion_lower_bound`</b>: An optional scalar `Tensor` specifying the lower
  limit of mean reversion rate during calibration.
  Default value: 0.001.
* <b>`mean_reversion_upper_bound`</b>: An optional scalar `Tensor` specifying the upper
  limit of mean reversion rate during calibration.
  Default value: 0.5.
* <b>`volatility_lower_bound`</b>: An optional scalar `Tensor` specifying the lower
  limit of volatility during calibration.
  Default value: 0.00001 (0.1 basis points).
* <b>`volatility_upper_bound`</b>: An optional scalar `Tensor` specifying the upper
  limit of volatility during calibration.
  Default value: 0.1.
* <b>`tolerance`</b>: Scalar `Tensor` of real dtype. The absolute tolerance for
  terminating the iterations.
  Default value: 1e-6.
* <b>`maximum_iterations`</b>: Scalar positive int32 `Tensor`. The maximum number of
  iterations during the optimization.
  Default value: 50.
* <b>`dtype`</b>: The default dtype to use when converting values to `Tensor`s.
  Default value: `None` which means that default dtypes inferred by
    TensorFlow are used.
* <b>`name`</b>: Python string. The name to give to the ops created by this function.
  Default value: `None` which maps to the default name
    `hjm_swaption_calibration`.


#### Returns:

A Tuple of three elements:
* The first element is an instance of `CalibrationResult` whose parameters
  are calibrated to the input swaption prices.
* A `Tensor` of optimization status for each batch element (whether the
  optimization algorithm has found the optimal point based on the specified
  convergance criteria).
* A `Tensor` containing the number of iterations performed by the
  optimization algorithm.
