<!--
This file is generated by a tool. Do not edit directly.
For open-source contributions the docs will be updated automatically.
-->

*Last updated: 2022-05-30.*

<div itemscope itemtype="http://developers.google.com/ReferenceObject">
<meta itemprop="name" content="tf_quant_finance.models.hjm.QuasiGaussianHJM" />
<meta itemprop="path" content="Stable" />
<meta itemprop="property" content="__init__"/>
<meta itemprop="property" content="dim"/>
<meta itemprop="property" content="drift_fn"/>
<meta itemprop="property" content="dtype"/>
<meta itemprop="property" content="fd_solver_backward"/>
<meta itemprop="property" content="fd_solver_forward"/>
<meta itemprop="property" content="name"/>
<meta itemprop="property" content="sample_discount_curve_paths"/>
<meta itemprop="property" content="sample_paths"/>
<meta itemprop="property" content="volatility_fn"/>
</div>

# tf_quant_finance.models.hjm.QuasiGaussianHJM

<!-- Insert buttons and diff -->

<table class="tfo-notebook-buttons tfo-api" align="left">
</table>

<a target="_blank" href="https://github.com/google/tf-quant-finance/blob/master/tf_quant_finance/models/hjm/quasi_gaussian_hjm.py">View source</a>



Quasi-Gaussian HJM model for term-structure modeling.

Inherits From: [`GenericItoProcess`](../../../tf_quant_finance/models/GenericItoProcess.md)

```python
tf_quant_finance.models.hjm.QuasiGaussianHJM(
    dim, mean_reversion, volatility, initial_discount_rate_fn, corr_matrix=None,
    validate_args=False, dtype=None, name=None
)
```



<!-- Placeholder for "Used in" -->

Heath-Jarrow-Morton (HJM) model for the interest rate term-structre
modelling specifies the dynamics of the instantaneus forward rate `f(t,T)`
with maturity `T` at time `t` as follows:

```None
  df(t,T) = mu(t,T) dt + sum_i sigma_i(t,  T) * dW_i(t),
  1 <= i <= n,
```
where `mu(t,T)` and `sigma_i(t,T)` denote the drift and volatility
for the forward rate and `W_i` are Brownian motions with instantaneous
correlation `Rho`. The model above represents an `n-factor` HJM model. Under
the risk-neutral measure, the drift `mu(t,T)` is computed as

```
  mu(t,T) = sum_i sigma_i(t,T)  int_t^T sigma_(t,u) du
```
Using the separability condition, the HJM model above can be formulated as
the following Markovian model:

```None
  sigma(t,T) = sigma(t) * h(T)    (Separability condition)
```
A common choice for the function h(t) is `h(t) = exp(-kt)`. Using the above
parameterization of sigma(t,T), we obtain the following Markovian
formulation of the HJM model [1]:

```None
  HJM Model
  dx_i(t) = (sum_j [y_ij(t)] - k_i * x_i(t)) dt + sigma_i(t) dW_i
  dy_ij(t) = (rho_ij * sigma_i(t)*sigma_j(t) - (k_i + k_j) * y_ij(t)) dt
  r(t) = sum_i x_i(t) + f(0, t)
```
where `x` is an `n`-dimensional vector and `y` is an `nxn` dimensional
matrix. The HJM class implements the model outlined above by jointly
simulating the state [x_t, y_t].

The price at time `t` of a zero-coupon bond maturing at `T` is given by
(Ref. [1]):

```None
P(t,T) = P(0,T) / P(0,t) *
         exp(-x(t) * G(t,T) - 0.5 * y(t) * G(t,T)^2)
```

The HJM model implentation supports constant mean-reversion rate `k` and
`sigma(t)` can be an arbitrary function of `t` and `r`. The implementation
uses Euler discretization to simulate the HJM model.

#### Example. Simulate a 4-factor HJM process.

```python
import numpy as np
import tensorflow.compat.v2 as tf
import tf_quant_finance as tff

dtype = tf.float64
def discount_fn(x):
  return 0.01 * tf.ones_like(x, dtype=dtype)

process = tff.models.hjm.QuasiGaussianHJM(
    dim=4,
    mean_reversion=[0.03, 0.01, 0.02, 0.005],  # constant mean-reversion
    volatility=[0.01, 0.011, 0.015, 0.008],  # constant volatility
    initial_discount_rate_fn=discount_fn,
    dtype=dtype)
times = np.array([0.1, 1.0, 2.0, 3.0])
short_rate_paths, discount_paths, _, _ = process.sample_paths(
    times,
    num_samples=100000,
    time_step=0.1,
    random_type=tff.math.random.RandomType.STATELESS_ANTITHETIC,
    seed=[1, 2],
    skip=1000000)
```

#### References:
  [1]: Leif B. G. Andersen and Vladimir V. Piterbarg. Interest Rate Modeling.
  Volume II: Term Structure Models.

#### Args:


* <b>`dim`</b>: A Python scalar which corresponds to the number of factors
  comprising the model.
* <b>`mean_reversion`</b>: A real positive `Tensor` of shape `batch_shape + [dim]`.
  `batch_shape` denotes the shape of independent HJM models within the
  batch. Corresponds to the mean reversion rate of each factor.
* <b>`volatility`</b>: A real positive `Tensor` of the same `dtype` and shape as
  `mean_reversion` or a callable with the following properties:
  (a)  The callable should accept a scalar `Tensor` `t` and a `Tensor`
  `r(t)` of shape `batch_shape + [num_samples]` and returns a `Tensor` of
  shape compatible with `batch_shape + [num_samples, dim]`. The variable
  `t`  stands for time and `r(t)` is the short rate at time `t`. The
  function returns instantaneous volatility `sigma(t) = sigma(t, r(t))`.
  When `volatility` is specified as a real `Tensor`, each factor is
  assumed to have a constant instantaneous volatility  and the  model is
  effectively a Gaussian HJM model.
  Corresponds to the instantaneous volatility of each factor.
* <b>`initial_discount_rate_fn`</b>: A Python callable that accepts expiry time as
  a real `Tensor` of the same `dtype` as `mean_reversion` and returns a
  `Tensor` of shape `batch_shape + input_shape`.
  Corresponds to the zero coupon bond yield at the present time for the
  input expiry time.
* <b>`corr_matrix`</b>: A `Tensor` of shape `batch_shape + [dim, dim]` and the same
  `dtype` as `mean_reversion`.
  Corresponds to the correlation matrix `Rho`.
* <b>`validate_args`</b>: Optional boolean flag to enable validation of the input
  correlation matrix. If the flag is enabled and the input correlation
  matrix is not positive semidefinite, an error is raised.
  Default value: False.
* <b>`dtype`</b>: The default dtype to use when converting values to `Tensor`s.
  Default value: `None` which maps to `tf.float32`.
* <b>`name`</b>: Python string. The name to give to the ops created by this class.
  Default value: `None` which maps to the default name
  `quasi_gaussian_hjm_model`.

## Methods

<h3 id="dim"><code>dim</code></h3>

<a target="_blank" href="https://github.com/google/tf-quant-finance/blob/master/tf_quant_finance/models/generic_ito_process.py">View source</a>

```python
dim()
```

The dimension of the process.


<h3 id="drift_fn"><code>drift_fn</code></h3>

<a target="_blank" href="https://github.com/google/tf-quant-finance/blob/master/tf_quant_finance/models/generic_ito_process.py">View source</a>

```python
drift_fn()
```

Python callable calculating instantaneous drift.

The callable should accept two real `Tensor` arguments of the same dtype.
The first argument is the scalar time t, the second argument is the value of
Ito process X - `Tensor` of shape
`batch_shape + sample_shape + [dim]`, where `batch_shape` represents a batch
of models and `sample_shape` represents samples for each of the models. The
result is value of drift a(t, X). The return value of the callable is a real
`Tensor` of the same dtype as the input arguments and of shape
`batch_shape + sample_shape + [dim]`. For example, `sample_shape` can stand
for `[num_samples]` for Monte Carlo sampling, or
`[num_grid_points_1, ..., num_grid_points_dim]` for Finite Difference
solvers.

#### Returns:

The instantaneous drift rate callable.


<h3 id="dtype"><code>dtype</code></h3>

<a target="_blank" href="https://github.com/google/tf-quant-finance/blob/master/tf_quant_finance/models/generic_ito_process.py">View source</a>

```python
dtype()
```

The data type of process realizations.


<h3 id="fd_solver_backward"><code>fd_solver_backward</code></h3>

<a target="_blank" href="https://github.com/google/tf-quant-finance/blob/master/tf_quant_finance/models/generic_ito_process.py">View source</a>

```python
fd_solver_backward(
    start_time, end_time, coord_grid, values_grid, discounting=None,
    one_step_fn=None, boundary_conditions=None, start_step_count=0, num_steps=None,
    time_step=None, values_transform_fn=None, dtype=None, name=None, **kwargs
)
```

Returns a solver for Feynman-Kac PDE associated to the process.

This method applies a finite difference method to solve the final value
problem as it appears in the Feynman-Kac formula associated to this Ito
process. The Feynman-Kac PDE is closely related to the backward Kolomogorov
equation associated to the stochastic process and allows for the inclusion
of a discounting function.

For more details of the Feynman-Kac theorem see [1]. The PDE solved by this
method is:

```None
  V_t + Sum[mu_i(t, x) V_i, 1<=i<=n] +
    (1/2) Sum[ D_{ij} V_{ij}, 1 <= i,j <= n] - r(t, x) V = 0
```

In the above, `V_t` is the derivative of `V` with respect to `t`,
`V_i` is the partial derivative with respect to `x_i` and `V_{ij}` the
(mixed) partial derivative with respect to `x_i` and `x_j`. `mu_i` is the
drift of this process and `D_{ij}` are the components of the diffusion
tensor:

```None
  D_{ij}(t,x) = (Sigma(t,x) . Transpose[Sigma(t,x)])_{ij}
```

This method evolves a spatially discretized solution of the above PDE from
time `t0` to time `t1 < t0` (i.e. backwards in time).
The solution `V(t,x)` is assumed to be discretized on an `n`-dimensional
rectangular grid. A rectangular grid, G, in n-dimensions may be described
by specifying the coordinates of the points along each axis. For example,
a 2 x 4 grid in two dimensions can be specified by taking the cartesian
product of [1, 3] and [5, 6, 7, 8] to yield the grid points with
coordinates: `[(1, 5), (1, 6), (1, 7), (1, 8), (3, 5) ... (3, 8)]`.

This method allows batching of solutions. In this context, batching means
the ability to represent and evolve multiple independent functions `V`
(e.g. V1, V2 ...) simultaneously. A single discretized solution is specified
by stating its values at each grid point. This can be represented as a
`Tensor` of shape [d1, d2, ... dn] where di is the grid size along the `i`th
axis. A batch of such solutions is represented by a `Tensor` of shape:
`batch_shape + payoff_shape + [d1, d2, ... dn]` where `batch_shape` is the
batch of processes as in the underlying `drift_fn` and `volatility_fn` and
`payoff_shape` are the equations to be solved for each batch element.

The evolution of the solution from `t0` to `t1` is often done by
discretizing the differential equation to a difference equation along
the spatial and temporal axes. The temporal discretization is given by a
(sequence of) time steps [dt_1, dt_2, ... dt_k] such that the sum of the
time steps is equal to the total time step `t0 - t1`. If a uniform time
step is used, it may equivalently be specified by stating the number of
steps (n_steps) to take. This method provides both options via the
`time_step` and `num_steps` parameters. However, not all methods need
discretization along time direction (e.g. method of lines) so this argument
may not be applicable to some implementations.

The workhorse of this method is the `one_step_fn`. For the commonly used
methods, see functions in <a href="../../../tf_quant_finance/math/pde/steppers.md"><code>math.pde.steppers</code></a> module.

The mapping between the arguments of this method and the above
equation are described in the Args section below.

For a simple instructive example of implementation of this method, see
<a href="../../../tf_quant_finance/models/GenericItoProcess.md#fd_solver_backward"><code>models.GenericItoProcess.fd_solver_backward</code></a>.

#### Examples
```python
import tensorflow as tf
import numpy as np

import tf_quant_finance as tff
dtype = tf.float64

# Specify volatilities, interest rates and strikes for the options
volatilities = tf.constant([[0.3], [0.15], [0.1]], dtype)
rates = tf.constant([[0.01], [0.03], [0.01]], dtype)
expiries = 1.0

# Define Generic Ito Process

# Process dimensionality
dim = 1

# Batch size of the process
num_processes = 3

def drift_fn(t, x):
  del t
  # `x` is expected to be of shape [num_processes] + sample_shape + [dim]
  # We need to expand rank of rates to
  # `[num_processes] + extra_rank * [1] + [1]`
  expand_rank = x.shape.rank - 2
  rates_expand = tf.reshape(
      rates, [num_processes] + (expand_rank + 1) * [1])
  # Output is of shape [num_processes] + sample_shape + [dim]
  return rates_expand * x

def vol_fn(t, x):
  del t
  # `x` is expected to be of shape [num_processes] + sample_shape + [dim]
  # As before, need to expand rank of volatilities to
  # `[num_processes] + extra_rank * [1] + [1]`
  expand_rank = x.shape.rank - 2
  volatilities_expand = tf.reshape(
      volatilities, [num_processes] + (expand_rank + 1) * [1])
  # Output is of shape [num_processes] + sample_shape + [dim, dim]
  return (tf.expand_dims(volatilities_expand * x, axis=-1)
          * tf.eye(dim, batch_shape=x.shape.as_list()[:-1], dtype=x.dtype))

process = tff.models.GenericItoProcess(dim=dim,
                                       drift_fn=drift_fn,
                                       volatility_fn=vol_fn,
                                       dtype=dtype)
# Define a 2 strikes for each batch process,
num_strikes = 2
# Shape [num_processes, num_strikes, 1]. Here 1 at the end is just for
# convenience
strikes = tf.constant([[[50], [60]], [[100], [90]], [[120], [90]]], dtype)

# Price a batch of European call options
@tff.math.pde.boundary_conditions.dirichlet
def upper_boundary_fn(t, grid):
  del grid
  # Shape (num_processes, num_strikes)
  return tf.squeeze(s_max - strikes * tf.exp(-rates  * (expiries - t)))

# Define discounting function
def discounting(t, x):
  del t, x
  rates_expand = tf.expand_dims(rates, axis=-1)
  # Shape compatible with (num_processes, num_strikes)
  return rates_expand

# Build a uniform grid
s_min = 0
s_max = 200
num_grid_points = 256  # Number of grid points

grid = tff.math.pde.grids.uniform_grid(minimums=[s_min],
                                       maximums=[s_max],
                                       sizes=[num_grid_points],
                                       dtype=dtype)

# Shape [num_processes, num_strikes, num_grid_points]
final_value_grid = tf.nn.relu(grid[0] - strikes)

# Estimated prices for the European options
process.fd_solver_backward(
    start_time=expiries,
    end_time=0,
    time_step=0.1,
    coord_grid=grid,
    values_grid=final_value_grid,
    discounting=discounting,
    boundary_condtions=[(None, upper_boundary_fn)])[0]
# Shape of the output is [num_processes, num_strikes, num_grid_points]
```

#### Args:


* <b>`start_time`</b>: Real positive scalar `Tensor`. The start time of the grid.
  Corresponds to time `t0` above.
* <b>`end_time`</b>: Real scalar `Tensor` smaller than the `start_time` and greater
  than zero. The time to step back to. Corresponds to time `t1` above.
* <b>`coord_grid`</b>: List of `n` rank 1 real `Tensor`s. `n` is the dimension of the
  domain. The i-th `Tensor` has shape, `[d_i]` where `d_i` is the size of
  the grid along axis `i`. The coordinates of the grid points. Corresponds
  to the spatial grid `G` above.
* <b>`values_grid`</b>: Real `Tensor` containing the function values at time
  `start_time` which have to be stepped back to time `end_time`. The shape
  of the `Tensor` must broadcast with
  `batch_shape + payoff_shape + [d_1, d_2, ..., d_n]`. `batch_shape`
  represents the batch of the processes as in the underlying `drift_fn`
  and `volatility_fn`. `payoff_shape` specifies equations to be solved for
  each batch element (with potentially different boundary/final conditions
  and for various coordinate grids). When the batch dimensions
  `batch_shape` or `payoff_shape` are present, the shape of values_grid`
  must be at least `batch_shape + payoff_shape + dim * [1]`.
* <b>`discounting`</b>: Callable corresponding to `r(t,x)` above. If not supplied,
  zero discounting is assumed.
* <b>`one_step_fn`</b>: The transition kernel. A callable that consumes the following
  arguments by keyword:
    1. 'time': Current time
    2. 'next_time': The next time to step to. For the backwards in time
      evolution, this time will be smaller than the current time.
    3. 'coord_grid': The coordinate grid.
    4. 'values_grid': The values grid.
    5. 'boundary_conditions': The boundary conditions.
    6. 'quadratic_coeff': A callable returning the quadratic coefficients
      of the PDE (i.e. `(1/2)D_{ij}(t, x)` above). The callable accepts
      the time and  coordinate grid as keyword arguments and returns a
      `Tensor` with shape that broadcasts with `[dim, dim]`.
    7. 'linear_coeff': A callable returning the linear coefficients of the
      PDE (i.e. `mu_i(t, x)` above). Accepts time and coordinate grid as
      keyword arguments and returns a `Tensor` with shape that broadcasts
      with `[dim]`.
    8. 'constant_coeff': A callable returning the coefficient of the
      linear homogeneous term (i.e. `r(t,x)` above). Same spec as above.
      The `one_step_fn` callable returns a 2-tuple containing the next
      coordinate grid, next values grid.
* <b>`boundary_conditions`</b>: The boundary conditions. Only rectangular boundary
  conditions are supported. A list of tuples of size `n` (space dimension
  of the PDE). The elements of the Tuple can be either a Python Callable
  or `None` representing the boundary conditions at the minimum and
  maximum values of the spatial variable indexed by the position in the
  list. E.g., for `n=2`, the length of `boundary_conditions` should be 2,
  `boundary_conditions[0][0]` describes the boundary `(y_min, x)`, and
  `boundary_conditions[1][0]`- the boundary `(y, x_min)`. `None` values
  mean that the second order terms for that dimension on the boundary are
  assumed to be zero, i.e., if `boundary_conditions[k][0]` is `None`,
  'dV/dt + Sum[a_ij d2(A_ij V)/dx_i dx_j, 1 <= i, j <= n, i!=k+1, j!=k+1]
     + Sum[b_i d(B_i V)/dx_i, 1 <= i <= n] + c V = 0.'
  For not `None` values, the boundary conditions are accepted in the form
  `alpha(t, x) V + beta(t, x) V_n = gamma(t, x)`, where `V_n` is the
  derivative with respect to the exterior normal to the boundary.
  Each callable receives the current time `t` and the `coord_grid` at the
  current time, and should return a tuple of `alpha`, `beta`, and `gamma`.
  Each can be a number, a zero-rank `Tensor` or a `Tensor` whose shape is
  the grid shape with the corresponding dimension removed.
  For example, for a two-dimensional grid of shape `(b, ny, nx)`, where
  `b` is the batch size, `boundary_conditions[0][i]` with `i = 0, 1`
  should return a tuple of either numbers, zero-rank tensors or tensors of
  shape `(b, nx)`. Similarly for `boundary_conditions[1][i]`, except the
  tensor shape should be `(b, ny)`. `alpha` and `beta` can also be `None`
  in case of Neumann and Dirichlet conditions, respectively.
  Default value: `None`. Unlike setting `None` to individual elements of
  `boundary_conditions`, setting the entire `boundary_conditions` object
  to `None` means Dirichlet conditions with zero value on all boundaries
  are applied.
* <b>`start_step_count`</b>: Scalar integer `Tensor`. Initial value for the number of
  time steps performed.
  Default value: 0 (i.e. no previous steps performed).
* <b>`num_steps`</b>: Positive int scalar `Tensor`. The number of time steps to take
  when moving from `start_time` to `end_time`. Either this argument or the
  `time_step` argument must be supplied (but not both). If num steps is
  `k>=1`, uniform time steps of size `(t0 - t1)/k` are taken to evolve the
  solution from `t0` to `t1`. Corresponds to the `n_steps` parameter
  above.
* <b>`time_step`</b>: The time step to take. Either this argument or the `num_steps`
  argument must be supplied (but not both). The type of this argument may
  be one of the following (in order of generality): (a) None in which case
    `num_steps` must be supplied. (b) A positive real scalar `Tensor`. The
    maximum time step to take. If the value of this argument is `dt`, then
    the total number of steps taken is N = (t0 - t1) / dt rounded up to
    the nearest integer. The first N-1 steps are of size dt and the last
    step is of size `t0 - t1 - (N-1) * dt`. (c) A callable accepting the
    current time and returning the size of the step to take. The input and
    the output are real scalar `Tensor`s.
* <b>`values_transform_fn`</b>: An optional callable applied to transform the
  solution values at each time step. The callable is invoked after the
  time step has been performed. The callable should accept the time of the
  grid, the coordinate grid and the values grid and should return the
  values grid. All input arguments to be passed by keyword.
* <b>`dtype`</b>: The dtype to use.
* <b>`name`</b>: The name to give to the ops.
  Default value: None which means `solve_backward` is used.
* <b>`**kwargs`</b>: Additional keyword args:
  (1) pde_solver_fn: Function to solve the PDE that accepts all the above
    arguments by name and returns the same tuple object as required below.
    Defaults to `tff.math.pde.fd_solvers.solve_backward`.


#### Returns:

A tuple object containing at least the following attributes:
  final_values_grid: A `Tensor` of same shape and dtype as `values_grid`.
    Contains the final state of the values grid at time `end_time`.
  final_coord_grid: A list of `Tensor`s of the same specification as
    the input `coord_grid`. Final state of the coordinate grid at time
    `end_time`.
  step_count: The total step count (i.e. the sum of the `start_step_count`
    and the number of steps performed in this call.).
  final_time: The final time at which the evolution stopped. This value
    is given by `max(min(end_time, start_time), 0)`.


<h3 id="fd_solver_forward"><code>fd_solver_forward</code></h3>

<a target="_blank" href="https://github.com/google/tf-quant-finance/blob/master/tf_quant_finance/models/generic_ito_process.py">View source</a>

```python
fd_solver_forward(
    start_time, end_time, coord_grid, values_grid, one_step_fn=None,
    boundary_conditions=None, start_step_count=0, num_steps=None, time_step=None,
    values_transform_fn=None, dtype=None, name=None, **kwargs
)
```

Returns a solver for the Fokker Plank equation of this process.

The Fokker Plank equation (also known as the Kolmogorov Forward equation)
associated to this Ito process is given by:

```None
  V_t + Sum[(mu_i(t, x) V)_i, 1<=i<=n]
    - (1/2) Sum[ (D_{ij} V)_{ij}, 1 <= i,j <= n] = 0
```

with the initial value condition $$V(0, x) = u(x)$$.

This method evolves a spatially discretized solution of the above PDE from
time `t0` to time `t1 > t0` (i.e. forwards in time).
The solution `V(t,x)` is assumed to be discretized on an `n`-dimensional
rectangular grid. A rectangular grid, G, in n-dimensions may be described
by specifying the coordinates of the points along each axis. For example,
a 2 x 4 grid in two dimensions can be specified by taking the cartesian
product of [1, 3] and [5, 6, 7, 8] to yield the grid points with
coordinates: `[(1, 5), (1, 6), (1, 7), (1, 8), (3, 5) ... (3, 8)]`.

This method allows batching of solutions. In this context, batching means
the ability to represent and evolve multiple independent functions `V`
(e.g. V1, V2 ...) simultaneously. A single discretized solution is specified
by stating its values at each grid point. This can be represented as a
`Tensor` of shape [d1, d2, ... dn] where di is the grid size along the `i`th
axis. A batch of such solutions is represented by a `Tensor` of shape:
`batch_shape + payoff_shape + [d1, d2, ... dn]` where `batch_shape` is the
batch of processes as in the underlying `drift_fn` and `volatility_fn` and
`payoff_shape` are the equations to be solved for each batch element.

The evolution of the solution from `t0` to `t1` is often done by
discretizing the differential equation to a difference equation along
the spatial and temporal axes. The temporal discretization is given by a
(sequence of) time steps [dt_1, dt_2, ... dt_k] such that the sum of the
time steps is equal to the total time step `t1 - t0`. If a uniform time
step is used, it may equivalently be specified by stating the number of
steps (n_steps) to take. This method provides both options via the
`time_step` and `num_steps` parameters. However, not all methods need
discretization along time direction (e.g. method of lines) so this argument
may not be applicable to some implementations.

The workhorse of this method is the `one_step_fn`. For the commonly used
methods, see functions in <a href="../../../tf_quant_finance/math/pde/steppers.md"><code>math.pde.steppers</code></a> module.

The mapping between the arguments of this method and the above
equation are described in the Args section below.

For a simple instructive example of implementation of this method, see
<a href="../../../tf_quant_finance/models/GenericItoProcess.md#fd_solver_forward"><code>models.GenericItoProcess.fd_solver_forward</code></a>.

#### Args:


* <b>`start_time`</b>: Real positive scalar `Tensor`. The start time of the grid.
  Corresponds to time `t0` above.
* <b>`end_time`</b>: Real scalar `Tensor` smaller than the `start_time` and greater
  than zero. The time to step back to. Corresponds to time `t1` above.
* <b>`coord_grid`</b>: List of `n` rank 1 real `Tensor`s. `n` is the dimension of the
  domain. The i-th `Tensor` has shape, `[d_i]` where `d_i` is the size of
  the grid along axis `i`. The coordinates of the grid points. Corresponds
  to the spatial grid `G` above.
* <b>`values_grid`</b>: Real `Tensor` containing the function values at time
  `start_time` which have to be stepped back to time `end_time`. The shape
  of the `Tensor` must broadcast with
  `batch_shape + payoff_shape + [d_1, d_2, ..., d_n]`. `batch_shape`
  represents the batch of the processes as in the underlying `drift_fn`
  and `volatility_fn`. `payoff_shape` specifies equations to be solved for
  each batch element (with potentially different boundary/final conditions
  and for various coordinate grids). When the batch dimensions
  `batch_shape` or `payoff_shape` are present, the shape of values_grid`
  must be at least `batch_shape + payoff_shape + dim * [1]`.
* <b>`one_step_fn`</b>: The transition kernel. A callable that consumes the following
  arguments by keyword:
    1. 'time': Current time
    2. 'next_time': The next time to step to. For the backwards in time
      evolution, this time will be smaller than the current time.
    3. 'coord_grid': The coordinate grid.
    4. 'values_grid': The values grid.
    5. 'quadratic_coeff': A callable returning the quadratic coefficients
      of the PDE (i.e. `(1/2)D_{ij}(t, x)` above). The callable accepts
      the time and  coordinate grid as keyword arguments and returns a
      `Tensor` with shape that broadcasts with `[dim, dim]`.
    6. 'linear_coeff': A callable returning the linear coefficients of the
      PDE (i.e. `mu_i(t, x)` above). Accepts time and coordinate grid as
      keyword arguments and returns a `Tensor` with shape that broadcasts
      with `[dim]`.
    7. 'constant_coeff': A callable returning the coefficient of the
      linear homogeneous term (i.e. `r(t,x)` above). Same spec as above.
      The `one_step_fn` callable returns a 2-tuple containing the next
      coordinate grid, next values grid.
* <b>`boundary_conditions`</b>: The boundary conditions. Only rectangular boundary
  conditions are supported. A list of tuples of size `n` (space dimension
  of the PDE). The elements of the Tuple can be either a Python Callable
  or `None` representing the boundary conditions at the minimum and
  maximum values of the spatial variable indexed by the position in the
  list. E.g., for `n=2`, the length of `boundary_conditions` should be 2,
  `boundary_conditions[0][0]` describes the boundary `(y_min, x)`, and
  `boundary_conditions[1][0]`- the boundary `(y, x_min)`. `None` values
  mean that the second order terms for that dimension on the boundary are
  assumed to be zero, i.e., if `boundary_conditions[k][0]` is `None`,
  'dV/dt + Sum[a_ij d2(A_ij V)/dx_i dx_j, 1 <= i, j <= n, i!=k+1, j!=k+1]
     + Sum[b_i d(B_i V)/dx_i, 1 <= i <= n] + c V = 0.'
  For not `None` values, the boundary conditions are accepted in the form
  `alpha(t, x) V + beta(t, x) V_n = gamma(t, x)`, where `V_n` is the
  derivative with respect to the exterior normal to the boundary.
  Each callable receives the current time `t` and the `coord_grid` at the
  current time, and should return a tuple of `alpha`, `beta`, and `gamma`.
  Each can be a number, a zero-rank `Tensor` or a `Tensor` whose shape is
  the grid shape with the corresponding dimension removed.
  For example, for a two-dimensional grid of shape `(b, ny, nx)`, where
  `b` is the batch size, `boundary_conditions[0][i]` with `i = 0, 1`
  should return a tuple of either numbers, zero-rank tensors or tensors of
  shape `(b, nx)`. Similarly for `boundary_conditions[1][i]`, except the
  tensor shape should be `(b, ny)`. `alpha` and `beta` can also be `None`
  in case of Neumann and Dirichlet conditions, respectively.
  Default value: `None`. Unlike setting `None` to individual elements of
  `boundary_conditions`, setting the entire `boundary_conditions` object
  to `None` means Dirichlet conditions with zero value on all boundaries
  are applied.
* <b>`start_step_count`</b>: Scalar integer `Tensor`. Initial value for the number of
  time steps performed.
  Default value: 0 (i.e. no previous steps performed).
* <b>`num_steps`</b>: Positive int scalar `Tensor`. The number of time steps to take
  when moving from `start_time` to `end_time`. Either this argument or the
  `time_step` argument must be supplied (but not both). If num steps is
  `k>=1`, uniform time steps of size `(t0 - t1)/k` are taken to evolve the
  solution from `t0` to `t1`. Corresponds to the `n_steps` parameter
  above.
* <b>`time_step`</b>: The time step to take. Either this argument or the `num_steps`
  argument must be supplied (but not both). The type of this argument may
  be one of the following (in order of generality): (a) None in which case
    `num_steps` must be supplied. (b) A positive real scalar `Tensor`. The
    maximum time step to take. If the value of this argument is `dt`, then
    the total number of steps taken is N = (t1 - t0) / dt rounded up to
    the nearest integer. The first N-1 steps are of size dt and the last
    step is of size `t1 - t0 - (N-1) * dt`. (c) A callable accepting the
    current time and returning the size of the step to take. The input and
    the output are real scalar `Tensor`s.
* <b>`values_transform_fn`</b>: An optional callable applied to transform the
  solution values at each time step. The callable is invoked after the
  time step has been performed. The callable should accept the time of the
  grid, the coordinate grid and the values grid and should return the
  values grid. All input arguments to be passed by keyword.
* <b>`dtype`</b>: The dtype to use.
* <b>`name`</b>: The name to give to the ops.
  Default value: None which means `solve_forward` is used.
* <b>`**kwargs`</b>: Additional keyword args:
  (1) pde_solver_fn: Function to solve the PDE that accepts all the above
    arguments by name and returns the same tuple object as required below.
    Defaults to `tff.math.pde.fd_solvers.solve_forward`.


#### Returns:

A tuple object containing at least the following attributes:
  final_values_grid: A `Tensor` of same shape and dtype as `values_grid`.
    Contains the final state of the values grid at time `end_time`.
  final_coord_grid: A list of `Tensor`s of the same specification as
    the input `coord_grid`. Final state of the coordinate grid at time
    `end_time`.
  step_count: The total step count (i.e. the sum of the `start_step_count`
    and the number of steps performed in this call.).
  final_time: The final time at which the evolution stopped. This value
    is given by `max(min(end_time, start_time), 0)`.


<h3 id="name"><code>name</code></h3>

<a target="_blank" href="https://github.com/google/tf-quant-finance/blob/master/tf_quant_finance/models/generic_ito_process.py">View source</a>

```python
name()
```

The name to give to ops created by this class.


<h3 id="sample_discount_curve_paths"><code>sample_discount_curve_paths</code></h3>

<a target="_blank" href="https://github.com/google/tf-quant-finance/blob/master/tf_quant_finance/models/hjm/quasi_gaussian_hjm.py">View source</a>

```python
sample_discount_curve_paths(
    times, curve_times, num_samples, time_step, num_time_steps=None,
    random_type=None, seed=None, skip=0, name=None
)
```

Returns a sample of simulated discount curves for the Hull-white model.


#### Args:


* <b>`times`</b>: A real positive `Tensor` of shape `[num_times,]`. The times `t` at
  which the discount curves are to be evaluated.
* <b>`curve_times`</b>: A real positive `Tensor` of shape `[num_curve_times]`. The
  maturities at which discount curve is computed at each simulation time.
* <b>`num_samples`</b>: Positive scalar `int`. The number of paths to draw.
* <b>`time_step`</b>: Scalar real `Tensor`. Maximal distance between time grid points
  in Euler scheme. Used only when Euler scheme is applied.
  Default value: `None`.
* <b>`num_time_steps`</b>: An optional Scalar integer `Tensor` - a total number of
  time steps performed by the algorithm. The maximal distance betwen
  points in grid is bounded by
  `times[-1] / (num_time_steps - times.shape[0])`.
  Either this or `time_step` should be supplied.
  Default value: `None`.
* <b>`random_type`</b>: Enum value of `RandomType`. The type of (quasi)-random
  number generator to use to generate the paths.
  Default value: None which maps to the standard pseudo-random numbers.
* <b>`seed`</b>: Seed for the random number generator. The seed is
  only relevant if `random_type` is one of
  `[STATELESS, PSEUDO, HALTON_RANDOMIZED, PSEUDO_ANTITHETIC,
    STATELESS_ANTITHETIC]`. For `PSEUDO`, `PSEUDO_ANTITHETIC` and
  `HALTON_RANDOMIZED` the seed should be an Python integer. For
  `STATELESS` and  `STATELESS_ANTITHETIC` must be supplied as an integer
  `Tensor` of shape `[2]`.
  Default value: `None` which means no seed is set.
* <b>`skip`</b>: `int32` 0-d `Tensor`. The number of initial points of the Sobol or
  Halton sequence to skip. Used only when `random_type` is 'SOBOL',
  'HALTON', or 'HALTON_RANDOMIZED', otherwise ignored.
  Default value: `0`.
* <b>`name`</b>: Str. The name to give this op.
  Default value: `sample_discount_curve_paths`.


#### Returns:

A tuple containing three `Tensor`s.

* The first element is a `Tensor` of shape
`batch_shape + [num_samples, num_curve_times, num_times]` containing
the simulated zero coupon bond curves `P(t, T)`.
* The second element is a `Tensor` of shape
`batch_shape + [num_samples, num_times]` containing the simulated short
rate paths.
* The third element is a `Tensor` of shape
`batch_shape + [num_samples, num_times]` containing the simulated
discount factor paths.


### References:
  [1]: Leif B.G. Andersen and Vladimir V. Piterbarg. Interest Rate Modeling,
  Volume II: Term Structure Models. 2010.

<h3 id="sample_paths"><code>sample_paths</code></h3>

<a target="_blank" href="https://github.com/google/tf-quant-finance/blob/master/tf_quant_finance/models/hjm/quasi_gaussian_hjm.py">View source</a>

```python
sample_paths(
    times, num_samples, time_step, num_time_steps=None, random_type=None, seed=None,
    skip=0, name=None
)
```

Returns a sample of short rate paths from the HJM process.

Uses Euler sampling for simulating the short rate paths. The code closely
follows the notations in [1], section ###.

#### Args:


* <b>`times`</b>: A real positive `Tensor` of shape `(num_times,)`. The times at
  which the path points are to be evaluated.
* <b>`num_samples`</b>: Positive scalar `int32` `Tensor`. The number of paths to
  draw.
* <b>`time_step`</b>: Scalar real `Tensor`. Maximal distance between time grid points
  in Euler scheme. Used only when Euler scheme is applied.
  Default value: `None`.
* <b>`num_time_steps`</b>: An optional Scalar integer `Tensor` - a total number of
  time steps performed by the algorithm. The maximal distance between
  points in grid is bounded by
  `times[-1] / (num_time_steps - times.shape[0])`.
  Either this or `time_step` should be supplied.
  Default value: `None`.
* <b>`random_type`</b>: Enum value of `RandomType`. The type of (quasi)-random
  number generator to use to generate the paths.
  Default value: `None` which maps to the standard pseudo-random numbers.
* <b>`seed`</b>: Seed for the random number generator. The seed is
  only relevant if `random_type` is one of
  `[STATELESS, PSEUDO, HALTON_RANDOMIZED, PSEUDO_ANTITHETIC,
    STATELESS_ANTITHETIC]`. For `PSEUDO`, `PSEUDO_ANTITHETIC` and
  `HALTON_RANDOMIZED` the seed should be an Python integer. For
  `STATELESS` and  `STATELESS_ANTITHETIC `must be supplied as an integer
  `Tensor` of shape `[2]`.
  Default value: `None` which means no seed is set.
* <b>`skip`</b>: `int32` 0-d `Tensor`. The number of initial points of the Sobol or
  Halton sequence to skip. Used only when `random_type` is 'SOBOL',
  'HALTON', or 'HALTON_RANDOMIZED', otherwise ignored.
  Default value: `0`.
* <b>`name`</b>: Python string. The name to give this op.
  Default value: `sample_paths`.


#### Returns:

A tuple containing four elements.

* The first element is a `Tensor` of
shape `batch_shape + [num_samples, num_times]` containing the simulated
short rate paths.
* The second element is a `Tensor` of shape
`batch_shape + [num_samples, num_times]` containing the simulated
discount factor paths.
* The third element is a `Tensor` of shape
`batch_shape + [num_samples, num_times, dim]` conating the simulated
values of the state variable `x`
* The fourth element is a `Tensor` of shape
`batch_shape + [num_samples, num_times, dim^2]` conating the simulated
values of the state variable `y`.



#### Raises:


* <b>`ValueError`</b>:   (a) If `times` has rank different from `1`.
  (b) If Euler scheme is used by times is not supplied.

<h3 id="volatility_fn"><code>volatility_fn</code></h3>

<a target="_blank" href="https://github.com/google/tf-quant-finance/blob/master/tf_quant_finance/models/generic_ito_process.py">View source</a>

```python
volatility_fn()
```

Python callable calculating the instantaneous volatility.

The callable should accept two real `Tensor` arguments of the same dtype and
shape `times_shape`. The first argument is the scalar time t, the second
argument is the value of Ito process X - `Tensor` of shape
`batch_shape + sample_shape + [dim]`, where `batch_shape` represents a batch
of models and `sample_shape` represents samples for each of the models. The
result is value of volatility S_{ij}(t, X). The return value of the callable
is a real `Tensor` of the same dtype as the input arguments and of shape
`batch_shape + sample_shape + [dim, dim]`. For example, `sample_shape` can
stand for `[num_samples]` for Monte Carlo sampling, or
`[num_grid_points_1, ..., num_grid_points_dim]` for Finite Difference
solvers.

#### Returns:

The instantaneous volatility callable.




