<!--
This file is generated by a tool. Do not edit directly.
For open-source contributions the docs will be updated automatically.
-->

*Last updated: 2022-05-30.*

<div itemscope itemtype="http://developers.google.com/ReferenceObject">
<meta itemprop="name" content="tf_quant_finance.experimental.instruments.ForwardRateAgreement" />
<meta itemprop="path" content="Stable" />
<meta itemprop="property" content="__init__"/>
<meta itemprop="property" content="price"/>
</div>

# tf_quant_finance.experimental.instruments.ForwardRateAgreement

<!-- Insert buttons and diff -->

<table class="tfo-notebook-buttons tfo-api" align="left">
</table>

<a target="_blank" href="https://github.com/google/tf-quant-finance/blob/master/tf_quant_finance/experimental/instruments/forward_rate_agreement.py">View source</a>



Represents a batch of Forward Rate Agreements (FRA).

```python
tf_quant_finance.experimental.instruments.ForwardRateAgreement(
    settlement_date, fixing_date, fixed_rate, notional=1.0,
    daycount_convention=None, rate_term=None, maturity_date=None, dtype=None,
    name=None
)
```



<!-- Placeholder for "Used in" -->

An FRA is a contract for the period [T, T+tau] where the holder exchanges a
fixed rate (agreed at the start of the contract) against a floating payment
determined at time T based on the spot Libor rate for term `tau`. The
cashflows are exchanged at the settlement time T_s, which is either equal to T
or close to T. The FRA are structured so that the payments are made in T+tau
dollars (ref [1]).

The ForwardRateAgreement class can be used to create and price multiple FRAs
simultaneously. However all FRAs within a FRA object must be priced using
a common reference and discount curve.

#### Example:
The following example illustrates the construction of a FRA instrument and
calculating its price.

```python
import numpy as np
import tensorflow as tf
import tf_quant_finance as tff
dates = tff.datetime

dtype = np.float64
notional = 1.
settlement_date = dates.convert_to_date_tensor([(2021, 2, 8)])
fixing_date = dates.convert_to_date_tensor([(2021, 2, 8)])
valuation_date = dates.convert_to_date_tensor([(2020, 2, 8)])
fixed_rate = 0.02
rate_term = rate_term = dates.periods.months(3)

fra = tff.experimental.instruments.ForwardRateAgreement(
      notional, settlement_date, fixing_date, fixed_rate,
      rate_term=rate_term, dtype=dtype)
curve_dates = valuation_date + dates.periods.months([1, 2, 3, 12, 24, 60])
reference_curve = tff.experimental.instruments.RateCurve(
    curve_dates,
    np.array([0.02, 0.025, 0.0275, 0.03, 0.035, 0.0325], dtype=dtype),
    dtype=dtype)
market = tff.experimental.instruments.InterestRateMarket(
    reference_curve=reference_curve, discount_curve=reference_curve)

price = fra.price(valuation_date, market)
# Expected result: 0.00378275
```

#### References:
[1]: Leif B.G. Andersen and Vladimir V. Piterbarg. Interest Rate Modeling,
    Volume I: Foundations and Vanilla Models. Chapter 5. 2010.

#### Args:


* <b>`settlement_date`</b>: A rank 1 `DateTensor` specifying the dates on which
  cashflows are settled. The shape of the input correspond to the number
  of instruments being created.
* <b>`fixing_date`</b>: A rank 1 `DateTensor` specifying the dates on which forward
  rate will be fixed. The shape of the inout should be the same as that of
  `settlement_date`.
* <b>`fixed_rate`</b>: A rank 1 `Tensor` of real dtype specifying the fixed rate
  payment agreed at the initiation of the individual contracts. The shape
  should be the same as that of `settlement_date`.
* <b>`notional`</b>: A scalar or a rank 1 `Tensor` of real dtype specifying the
  notional amount for each contract. When the notional is specified as a
  scalar, it is assumed that all contracts have the same notional. If the
  notional is in the form of a `Tensor`, then the shape must be the same
  as `settlement_date`.
  Default value: 1.0
* <b>`daycount_convention`</b>: An optional `DayCountConvention` to determine
  how cashflows are accrued for each contract. Daycount is assumed to be
  the same for all contracts in a given batch.
  Default value: None in which case the daycount convention will default
  to DayCountConvention.ACTUAL_360 for all contracts.
* <b>`rate_term`</b>: An optional rank 1 `PeriodTensor` specifying the term (or the
  tenor) of the Libor rate that determines the floating cashflow. The
  shape of the input should be the same as `settlement_date`.
  Default value: `None` in which case the the forward rate is determined
  for the period [settlement_date, maturity_date].
* <b>`maturity_date`</b>: An optional rank 1 `DateTensor` specifying the maturity of
  the underlying forward rate for each contract. This input is only used
  if the input `rate_term` is `None`.
  Default value: `None`
* <b>`dtype`</b>: `tf.Dtype`. If supplied the dtype for the real variables or ops
  either supplied to the FRA object or created by the FRA object.
  Default value: None which maps to the default dtype inferred by
  TensorFlow.
* <b>`name`</b>: Python str. The name to give to the ops created by this class.
  Default value: `None` which maps to 'forward_rate_agreement'.


#### Raises:


* <b>`ValueError`</b>: If both `maturity_date` and `rate_term` are unspecified.

## Methods

<h3 id="price"><code>price</code></h3>

<a target="_blank" href="https://github.com/google/tf-quant-finance/blob/master/tf_quant_finance/experimental/instruments/forward_rate_agreement.py">View source</a>

```python
price(
    valuation_date, market, model=None
)
```

Returns the present value of the instrument on the valuation date.


#### Args:


* <b>`valuation_date`</b>: A scalar `DateTensor` specifying the date on which
  valuation is being desired.
* <b>`market`</b>: A namedtuple of type `InterestRateMarket` which contains the
  necessary information for pricing the FRA instrument.
* <b>`model`</b>: Reserved for future use.


#### Returns:

A Rank 1 `Tensor` of real type containing the modeled price of each FRA
contract based on the input market data.




