<!--
This file is generated by a tool. Do not edit directly.
For open-source contributions the docs will be updated automatically.
-->

*Last updated: 2022-05-30.*

<div itemscope itemtype="http://developers.google.com/ReferenceObject">
<meta itemprop="name" content="tf_quant_finance.models.hull_white.calibration_from_swaptions" />
<meta itemprop="path" content="Stable" />
</div>

# tf_quant_finance.models.hull_white.calibration_from_swaptions

<!-- Insert buttons and diff -->

<table class="tfo-notebook-buttons tfo-api" align="left">
</table>

<a target="_blank" href="https://github.com/google/tf-quant-finance/blob/master/tf_quant_finance/models/hull_white/calibration.py">View source</a>



Calibrates the Hull-White model using European Swaptions.

```python
tf_quant_finance.models.hull_white.calibration_from_swaptions(
    *, prices, expiries, floating_leg_start_times, floating_leg_end_times,
    fixed_leg_payment_times, floating_leg_daycount_fractions,
    fixed_leg_daycount_fractions, fixed_leg_coupon, reference_rate_fn,
    mean_reversion, volatility, notional=None, is_payer_swaption=True,
    use_analytic_pricing=True, num_samples=1, random_type=None, seed=None, skip=0,
    time_step=None, volatility_based_calibration=True, optimizer_fn=None,
    mean_reversion_lower_bound=0.001, mean_reversion_upper_bound=0.5,
    volatility_lower_bound=1e-05, volatility_upper_bound=0.1, tolerance=1e-06,
    maximum_iterations=50, dtype=None, name=None
)
```



<!-- Placeholder for "Used in" -->

This function estimates the mean-reversion rate and volatility parameters of
a Hull-White 1-factor model using a set of European swaption prices as the
target. The calibration is performed using least-squares optimization where
the loss function minimizes the squared error between the target swaption
prices and the model implied swaption prices.

#### Example
The example shows how to calibrate a Hull-White model with constant mean
reversion rate and constant volatility.

````python
import numpy as np
import tensorflow.compat.v2 as tf
import tf_quant_finance as tff

dtype = tf.float64

mean_reversion = [0.03]
volatility = [0.01]
expiries = np.array(
    [0.5, 0.5, 1.0, 1.0, 2.0, 2.0, 3.0, 3.0, 4.0, 4.0, 5.0, 5.0, 10., 10.])
float_leg_start_times = np.array([
    [0.5, 1.0, 1.5, 2.0, 2.5, 2.5, 2.5, 2.5, 2.5, 2.5],  # 6M x 2Y  swap
    [0.5, 1.0, 1.5, 2.0, 2.5, 3.0, 3.5, 4.0, 4.5, 5.0],  # 6M x 5Y  swap
    [1.0, 1.5, 2.0, 2.5, 3.0, 3.0, 3.0, 3.0, 3.0, 3.0],  # 1Y x 2Y  swap
    [1.0, 1.5, 2.0, 2.5, 3.0, 3.5, 4.0, 4.5, 5.0, 5.5],  # 1Y x 5Y  swap
    [2.0, 2.5, 3.0, 3.5, 4.0, 4.0, 4.0, 4.0, 4.0, 4.0],  # 2Y x 2Y  swap
    [2.0, 2.5, 3.0, 3.5, 4.0, 4.5, 5.0, 5.5, 6.0, 6.5],  # 2Y x 5Y  swap
    [3.0, 3.5, 4.0, 4.5, 5.0, 5.0, 5.0, 5.0, 5.0, 5.0],  # 3Y x 2Y  swap
    [3.0, 3.5, 4.0, 4.5, 5.0, 5.5, 6.0, 6.5, 7.0, 7.5],  # 3Y x 5Y  swap
    [4.0, 4.5, 5.0, 5.5, 6.0, 6.0, 6.0, 6.0, 6.0, 6.0],  # 4Y x 2Y  swap
    [4.0, 4.5, 5.0, 5.5, 6.0, 6.5, 7.0, 7.5, 8.0, 8.5],  # 4Y x 5Y  swap
    [5.0, 5.5, 6.0, 6.5, 7.0, 7.0, 7.0, 7.0, 7.0, 7.0],  # 5Y x 2Y  swap
    [5.0, 5.5, 6.0, 6.5, 7.0, 7.5, 8.0, 8.5, 9.0, 9.5],  # 5Y x 5Y  swap
    [10.0, 10.5, 11.0, 11.5, 12.0, 12.0, 12.0, 12.0, 12.0,
     12.0],  # 10Y x 2Y  swap
    [10.0, 10.5, 11.0, 11.5, 12.0, 12.5, 13.0, 13.5, 14.0,
     14.5]  # 10Y x 5Y  swap
])
float_leg_end_times = float_leg_start_times + 0.5
max_maturities = np.array(
    [2.5, 5.5, 3.0, 6.0, 4., 7., 5., 8., 6., 9., 7., 10., 12., 15.])
for i in range(float_leg_end_times.shape[0]):
  float_leg_end_times[i] = np.clip(
      float_leg_end_times[i], 0.0, max_maturities[i])

fixed_leg_payment_times = float_leg_end_times
float_leg_daycount_fractions = (
    float_leg_end_times - float_leg_start_times)
fixed_leg_daycount_fractions = float_leg_daycount_fractions
fixed_leg_coupon = 0.01 * np.ones_like(fixed_leg_payment_times)

zero_rate_fn = lambda x: 0.01 * tf.ones_like(x, dtype=dtype)
prices = tff.models.hull_white.swaption_price(
    expiries=expiries,
    floating_leg_start_times=float_leg_start_times,
    floating_leg_end_times=float_leg_end_times,
    fixed_leg_payment_times=fixed_leg_payment_times,
    floating_leg_daycount_fractions=float_leg_daycount_fractions,
    fixed_leg_daycount_fractions=fixed_leg_daycount_fractions,
    fixed_leg_coupon=fixed_leg_coupon,
    reference_rate_fn=zero_rate_fn,
    notional=100.,
    dim=1,
    mean_reversion=mean_reversion,
    volatility=volatility,
    use_analytic_pricing=True,
    dtype=dtype)

calibrated_parameters = tff.models.hull_white.calibration_from_swaptions(
    prices=prices[:, 0],
    expiries=expiries,
    floating_leg_start_times=float_leg_start_times,
    floating_leg_end_times=float_leg_end_times,
    fixed_leg_payment_times=fixed_leg_payment_times,
    floating_leg_daycount_fractions=float_leg_daycount_fractions,
    fixed_leg_daycount_fractions=fixed_leg_daycount_fractions,
    fixed_leg_coupon=fixed_leg_coupon,
    reference_rate_fn=zero_rate_fn,
    notional=100.,
    mean_reversion=[0.01],  # Initial guess for mean reversion rate
    volatility=[0.005],  # Initial guess for volatility
    maximum_iterations=50,
    dtype=dtype)
# Expected calibrated_parameters.mean_reversion.values(): [0.03]
# Expected calibrated_parameters.volatility.values(): [0.01]
````

#### Args:


* <b>`prices`</b>: A rank 1 real `Tensor`. The prices of swaptions used for
  calibration.
* <b>`expiries`</b>: A real `Tensor` of same shape and dtype as `prices`. The time to
  expiration of the swaptions.
* <b>`floating_leg_start_times`</b>: A real `Tensor` of the same dtype as `expiries`.
  The times when accrual begins for each payment in the floating leg. The
  shape of this input should be `expiries.shape + [m]` where `m` denotes
  the number of floating payments in each leg.
* <b>`floating_leg_end_times`</b>: A real `Tensor` of the same dtype as `expiries`.
  The times when accrual ends for each payment in the floating leg. The
  shape of this input should be `expiries.shape + [m]` where `m` denotes
  the number of floating payments in each leg.
* <b>`fixed_leg_payment_times`</b>: A real `Tensor` of the same dtype as `expiries`.
  The payment times for each payment in the fixed leg. The shape of this
  input should be `expiries.shape + [n]` where `n` denotes the number of
  fixed payments in each leg.
* <b>`floating_leg_daycount_fractions`</b>: A real `Tensor` of the same dtype and
  compatible shape as `floating_leg_start_times`. The daycount fractions
  for each payment in the floating leg.
* <b>`fixed_leg_daycount_fractions`</b>: A real `Tensor` of the same dtype and
  compatible shape as `fixed_leg_payment_times`. The daycount fractions
  for each payment in the fixed leg.
* <b>`fixed_leg_coupon`</b>: A real `Tensor` of the same dtype and compatible shape
  as `fixed_leg_payment_times`. The fixed rate for each payment in the
  fixed leg.
* <b>`reference_rate_fn`</b>: A Python callable that accepts expiry time as a real
  `Tensor` and returns a `Tensor` of either shape `input_shape` or
  `input_shape`. Returns the continuously compounded zero rate at
  the present time for the input expiry time.
* <b>`mean_reversion`</b>: A real positive scalar `Tensor` or a Python callable. The
  callable can be one of the following:
  (a) A left-continuous piecewise constant object (e.g.,
  `tff.math.piecewise.PiecewiseConstantFunc`) that has a property
  `is_piecewise_constant` set to `True`. In this case the object should
  have a method `jump_locations(self)` that returns a `Tensor` of shape
  `[num_jumps]`. The return value of `mean_reversion(t)` should return a
  `Tensor` of shape `t.shape`, `t` is a rank 1 `Tensor` of the same `dtype`
  as the output. See example in the class docstring.
  (b) A callable that accepts scalars (stands for time `t`) and returns a
  scalar `Tensor` of the same `dtype` as `strikes`.
  Corresponds to the mean reversion rate.
* <b>`volatility`</b>: A real positive `Tensor` of the same `dtype` as
  `mean_reversion` or a callable with the same specs as above.
  Corresponds to the long run price variance.
* <b>`notional`</b>: An optional `Tensor` of same dtype and compatible shape as
  `strikes`specifying the notional amount for the underlying swap.
   Default value: None in which case the notional is set to 1.
* <b>`is_payer_swaption`</b>: A boolean `Tensor` of a shape compatible with `expiries`.
  Indicates whether the prices correspond to payer (if True) or receiver
  (if False) swaption. If not supplied, payer swaptions are assumed.
* <b>`use_analytic_pricing`</b>: A Python boolean specifying if swaption pricing is
  done analytically during calibration. Analytic valuation is only
  supported for constant `mean_reversion` and piecewise constant
  `volatility`. If the input is `False`, then valuation using Monte-Carlo
  simulations is performed.
  Default value: The default value is `True`.
* <b>`num_samples`</b>: Positive scalar `int32` `Tensor`. The number of simulation
  paths during Monte-Carlo valuation of swaptions. This input is ignored
  during analytic valuation.
  Default value: The default value is 1.
* <b>`random_type`</b>: Enum value of `RandomType`. The type of (quasi)-random
  number generator to use to generate the simulation paths. This input is
  relevant only for Monte-Carlo valuation and ignored during analytic
  valuation.
  Default value: `None` which maps to the standard pseudo-random numbers.
* <b>`seed`</b>: Seed for the random number generator. The seed is only relevant if
  `random_type` is one of
  `[STATELESS, PSEUDO, HALTON_RANDOMIZED, PSEUDO_ANTITHETIC,
    STATELESS_ANTITHETIC]`. For `PSEUDO`, `PSEUDO_ANTITHETIC` and
  `HALTON_RANDOMIZED` the seed should be an Python integer. For
  `STATELESS` and  `STATELESS_ANTITHETIC `must be supplied as an integer
  `Tensor` of shape `[2]`. This input is relevant only for Monte-Carlo
  valuation and ignored during analytic valuation.
  Default value: `None` which means no seed is set.
* <b>`skip`</b>: `int32` 0-d `Tensor`. The number of initial points of the Sobol or
  Halton sequence to skip. Used only when `random_type` is 'SOBOL',
  'HALTON', or 'HALTON_RANDOMIZED', otherwise ignored.
  Default value: `0`.
* <b>`time_step`</b>: Scalar real `Tensor`. Maximal distance between time grid points
  in Euler scheme. Relevant when Euler scheme is used for simulation. This
  input is ignored during analytic valuation.
  Default value: `None`.
* <b>`volatility_based_calibration`</b>: An optional Python boolean specifying whether
  calibration is performed using swaption implied volatilities. If the
  input is `True`, then the swaption prices are first converted to normal
  implied volatilities and calibration is performed by minimizing the
  error between input implied volatilities and model implied volatilities.
  Default value: True.
* <b>`optimizer_fn`</b>: Optional Python callable which implements the algorithm used
  to minimize the objective function during calibration. It should have
  the following interface:
  result = optimizer_fn(value_and_gradients_function, initial_position,
  tolerance, max_iterations)
  `value_and_gradients_function` is a Python callable that accepts a point
  as a real `Tensor` and returns a tuple of `Tensor`s of real dtype
  containing the value of the function and its gradient at that point.
  'initial_position' is a real `Tensor` containing the starting point of the
  optimization, 'tolerance' is a real scalar `Tensor` for stopping tolerance
  for the procedure and `max_iterations` specifies the maximum number of
  iterations.
  `optimizer_fn` should return a namedtuple containing the items: `position`
  (a tensor containing the optimal value), `converged` (a boolean indicating
  whether the optimize converged according the specified criteria),
  `failed` (a boolean indicating if the optimization resulted in a failure),
  `num_iterations` (the number of iterations used), and `objective_value` (
  the value of the objective function at the optimal value).
  The default value for `optimizer_fn` is None and conjugate gradient
  algorithm is used.
* <b>`mean_reversion_lower_bound`</b>: An optional scalar `Tensor` specifying the
  lower limit of mean reversion rate during calibration.
  Default value: 0.001.
* <b>`mean_reversion_upper_bound`</b>: An optional scalar `Tensor` specifying the
  upper limit of mean reversion rate during calibration.
  Default value: 0.5.
* <b>`volatility_lower_bound`</b>: An optional scalar `Tensor` specifying the
  lower limit of Hull White volatility during calibration.
  Default value: 0.00001 (0.1 basis points).
* <b>`volatility_upper_bound`</b>: An optional scalar `Tensor` specifying the
  upper limit of Hull White volatility during calibration.
  Default value: 0.1.
* <b>`tolerance`</b>: Scalar `Tensor` of real dtype. The absolute tolerance for
  terminating the iterations.
  Default value: 1e-6.
* <b>`maximum_iterations`</b>: Scalar positive int32 `Tensor`. The maximum number of
  iterations during the optimization.
  Default value: 50.
* <b>`dtype`</b>: The default dtype to use when converting values to `Tensor`s.
  Default value: `None` which means that default dtypes inferred by
  TensorFlow are used.
* <b>`name`</b>: Python string. The name to give to the ops created by this function.
  Default value: `None` which maps to the default name
  `hw_swaption_calibration`.


#### Returns:

A Tuple of three elements:
* The first element is an instance of `CalibrationResult` whose parameters
  are calibrated to the input swaption prices.
* A `Tensor` of optimization status for each batch element (whether the
  optimization algorithm has found the optimal point based on the specified
  convergance criteria).
* A `Tensor` containing the number of iterations performed by the
  optimization algorithm.
