<!--
This file is generated by a tool. Do not edit directly.
For open-source contributions the docs will be updated automatically.
-->

*Last updated: 2022-05-30.*

<div itemscope itemtype="http://developers.google.com/ReferenceObject">
<meta itemprop="name" content="tf_quant_finance.math.random.halton.sample" />
<meta itemprop="path" content="Stable" />
</div>

# tf_quant_finance.math.random.halton.sample

<!-- Insert buttons and diff -->

<table class="tfo-notebook-buttons tfo-api" align="left">
</table>

<a target="_blank" href="https://github.com/google/tf-quant-finance/blob/master/tf_quant_finance/math/random_ops/halton/halton_impl.py">View source</a>



Returns a sample from the `dim` dimensional Halton sequence.

```python
tf_quant_finance.math.random.halton.sample(
    dim, num_results=None, sequence_indices=None, randomized=True,
    randomization_params=None, seed=None, validate_args=False, dtype=None, name=None
)
```



<!-- Placeholder for "Used in" -->

Warning: The sequence elements take values only between 0 and 1. Care must be
taken to appropriately transform the domain of a function if it differs from
the unit cube before evaluating integrals using Halton samples. It is also
important to remember that quasi-random numbers without randomization are not
a replacement for pseudo-random numbers in every context. Quasi random numbers
are completely deterministic and typically have significant negative
autocorrelation unless randomization is used.

Computes the members of the low discrepancy Halton sequence in dimension
`dim`. The `dim`-dimensional sequence takes values in the unit hypercube in
`dim` dimensions. Currently, only dimensions up to 1000 are supported. The
prime base for the k-th axes is the k-th prime starting from 2. For example,
if `dim` = 3, then the bases will be [2, 3, 5] respectively and the first
element of the non-randomized sequence will be: [0.5, 0.333, 0.2]. For a more
complete description of the Halton sequences see
[here](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Halton_sequence). For low discrepancy
sequences and their applications see
[here](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Low-discrepancy_sequence).

If `randomized` is true, this function produces a scrambled version of the
Halton sequence introduced by [Owen (2017)][1]. For the advantages of
randomization of low discrepancy sequences see [here](
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Quasi-Monte_Carlo_method#Randomization_of_quasi-Monte_Carlo).

The number of samples produced is controlled by the `num_results` and
`sequence_indices` parameters. The user must supply either `num_results` or
`sequence_indices` but not both.
The former is the number of samples to produce starting from the first
element. If `sequence_indices` is given instead, the specified elements of
the sequence are generated. For example, sequence_indices=tf.range(10) is
equivalent to specifying n=10.

#### Examples

```python
import tensorflow.compat.v2 as tf
import tensorflow_probability as tfp

# Produce the first 1000 members of the Halton sequence in 3 dimensions.
num_results = 1000
dim = 3
sample, params = qmc.halton.sample(
  dim,
  num_results=num_results,
  seed=127)

# Evaluate the integral of x_1 * x_2^2 * x_3^3  over the three dimensional
# hypercube.
powers = tf.range(1.0, limit=dim + 1)
integral = tf.reduce_mean(tf.reduce_prod(sample ** powers, axis=-1))
true_value = 1.0 / tf.reduce_prod(powers + 1.0)
with tf.Session() as session:
  values = session.run((integral, true_value))

# Produces a relative absolute error of 1.7%.
print ("Estimated: %f, True Value: %f" % values)

# Now skip the first 1000 samples and recompute the integral with the next
# thousand samples. The sequence_indices argument can be used to do this.


sequence_indices = tf.range(start=1000, limit=1000 + num_results,
                            dtype=tf.int32)
sample_leaped, _ = qmc.halton.sample(
    dim,
    sequence_indices=sequence_indices,
    randomization_params=params)

integral_leaped = tf.reduce_mean(tf.reduce_prod(sample_leaped ** powers,
                                                axis=-1))
with tf.Session() as session:
  values = session.run((integral_leaped, true_value))
# Now produces a relative absolute error of 0.05%.
print ("Leaped Estimated: %f, True Value: %f" % values)
```

#### Args:


* <b>`dim`</b>: Positive Python `int` representing each sample's `event_size.` Must not
  be greater than 1000.
* <b>`num_results`</b>: (Optional) Positive scalar `Tensor` of dtype int32. The number
  of samples to generate. Either this parameter or sequence_indices must be
  specified but not both. If this parameter is None, then the behaviour is
  determined by the `sequence_indices`.
  Default value: `None`.
* <b>`sequence_indices`</b>: (Optional) `Tensor` of dtype int32 and rank 1. The
  elements of the sequence to compute specified by their position in the
  sequence. The entries index into the Halton sequence starting with 0 and
  hence, must be whole numbers. For example, sequence_indices=[0, 5, 6] will
  produce the first, sixth and seventh elements of the sequence. If this
  parameter is None, then the `num_results` parameter must be specified
  which gives the number of desired samples starting from the first sample.
  Default value: `None`.
* <b>`randomized`</b>: (Optional) bool indicating whether to produce a randomized
  Halton sequence. If True, applies the randomization described in [Owen
  (2017)][1]. If True, either seed or randomization_params must be
  specified. This is because the randomization uses stateless random number
  generation which requires an explicitly specified seed.
  Default value: `True`.
* <b>`randomization_params`</b>: (Optional) Instance of `HaltonParams` that fully
  describes the randomization behavior. If provided and randomized is True,
  seed will be ignored and these will be used instead of computing them from
  scratch. If randomized is False, this parameter has no effect.
  Default value: `None`. In this case with randomized = True, the necessary
    randomization parameters will be computed from scratch.
* <b>`seed`</b>: (Optional) Python integer to seed the random number generator. Must be
  specified if `randomized` is True and randomization_params is not
  specified. Ignored if randomized is False or randomization_params is
  specified.
  Default value: `None`.
* <b>`validate_args`</b>: If True, checks that maximum index is not exceeded and that
  the dimension `dim` is less than 1 or greater than 1000.
  Default value: `False`.
* <b>`dtype`</b>: Optional `dtype`. The dtype of the output `Tensor` (either `float32`
or `float64`).
  Default value: `None` which maps to the `float32`.
* <b>`name`</b>:  (Optional) Python `str` describing ops managed by this function. If
  not supplied the name of this function is used.
  Default value: "halton_sample".


#### Returns:


* <b>`halton_elements`</b>: Elements of the Halton sequence. `Tensor` of supplied dtype
  and `shape` `[num_results, dim]` if `num_results` was specified or shape
  `[s, dim]` where s is the size of `sequence_indices` if `sequence_indices`
  were specified.
* <b>`randomization_params`</b>: None if randomized is False. If randomized is True
  and randomization_params was supplied as an argument, returns that.
  Otherwise returns the computed randomization_params, an instance of
  `HaltonParams` that fully describes the randomization behavior.


#### Raises:


* <b>`ValueError`</b>: if both `sequence_indices` and `num_results` were specified.
* <b>`ValueError`</b>: if `randomization` is True but `seed` is not specified.
* <b>`InvalidArgumentError`</b>: if `validate_args` is True and the maximum supported
  sequence index is exceeded.

#### References

[1]: Art B. Owen. A randomized Halton algorithm in R. _arXiv preprint
     arXiv:1706.02808_, 2017. https://arxiv.org/abs/1706.02808