<!--
This file is generated by a tool. Do not edit directly.
For open-source contributions the docs will be updated automatically.
-->

*Last updated: 2022-05-30.*

<div itemscope itemtype="http://developers.google.com/ReferenceObject">
<meta itemprop="name" content="tf_quant_finance.math.pde.steppers.extrapolation.extrapolation_scheme" />
<meta itemprop="path" content="Stable" />
</div>

# tf_quant_finance.math.pde.steppers.extrapolation.extrapolation_scheme

<!-- Insert buttons and diff -->

<table class="tfo-notebook-buttons tfo-api" align="left">
</table>

<a target="_blank" href="https://github.com/google/tf-quant-finance/blob/master/tf_quant_finance/math/pde/steppers/extrapolation.py">View source</a>



Constructs extrapolation implicit-explicit scheme.

```python
tf_quant_finance.math.pde.steppers.extrapolation.extrapolation_scheme(
    value_grid, t1, t2, equation_params_fn
)
```



<!-- Placeholder for "Used in" -->

Performs two implicit half-steps, one full implicit step, and combines them
with such coefficients that ensure second-order errors. More computationally
expensive than Crank-Nicolson scheme, but provides a better approximation for
high-wavenumber components, which results in absence of oscillations typical
for Crank-Nicolson scheme in case of non-smooth initial conditions. See [1]
for details.

#### References:
[1]: D. Lawson, J & Ll Morris, J. The Extrapolation of First Order Methods
for Parabolic Partial Differential Equations. I. 1978
SIAM Journal on Numerical Analysis. 15. 1212-1224.
https://epubs.siam.org/doi/abs/10.1137/0715082

#### Args:


* <b>`value_grid`</b>: A `Tensor` of real dtype. Grid of solution values at the current
  time.
* <b>`t1`</b>: Time before the step.
* <b>`t2`</b>: Time after the step.
* <b>`equation_params_fn`</b>: A callable that takes a scalar `Tensor` argument
  representing time and constructs the tridiagonal matrix `A`
  (a tuple of three `Tensor`s, main, upper, and lower diagonals)
  and the inhomogeneous term `b`. All of the `Tensor`s are of the same
  `dtype` as `inner_value_grid` and of the shape broadcastable with the
  shape of `inner_value_grid`.


#### Returns:

A `Tensor` of the same shape and `dtype` a
`values_grid` and represents an approximate solution `u(t2)`.
