<!--
This file is generated by a tool. Do not edit directly.
For open-source contributions the docs will be updated automatically.
-->

*Last updated: 2021-08-04.*

<div itemscope itemtype="http://developers.google.com/ReferenceObject">
<meta itemprop="name" content="tf_quant_finance.experimental.rqmc.sample_digital_net" />
<meta itemprop="path" content="Stable" />
</div>

# tf_quant_finance.experimental.rqmc.sample_digital_net

<!-- Insert buttons and diff -->

<table class="tfo-notebook-buttons tfo-api" align="left">
</table>

<a target="_blank" href="https://github.com/google/tf-quant-finance/blob/master/tf_quant_finance/experimental/rqmc/digital_net.py">View source</a>



Constructs a digital net from a generating matrix.

```python
tf_quant_finance.experimental.rqmc.sample_digital_net(
    generating_matrices, num_results, num_digits, sequence_indices=None,
    digital_shift=None, apply_tent_transform=False, validate_args=False, dtype=None,
    name=None
)
```



<!-- Placeholder for "Used in" -->


#### Args:


* <b>`generating_matrices`</b>: Positive scalar `Tensor` of integers with rank 2. The
  matrix from which to sample points.
* <b>`num_results`</b>: Positive scalar `Tensor` of integers with rank 0. The maximum
  number of points to sample from `generating_matrices`.
* <b>`num_digits`</b>: Positive scalar `Tensor` of integers with rank 0. the base-2
  precision of the points sampled from `generating_matrices`.
* <b>`sequence_indices`</b>: Optional positive scalar `Tensor` of integers with rank 1.
  The elements of the sequence to return specified by their position in the
  sequence.
  Default value: `None` which corresponds to the `[0, num_results)` range.
* <b>`digital_shift`</b>: Optional positive scalar `Tensor` of integers with the shape
  (`num_results`, `dim`) where `dim = tf.shape(generating_matrices)[0]`. The
  digital shift to apply to all the points via a bitwise xor.
  Default value: `None`.
* <b>`apply_tent_transform`</b>: Python `bool` indicating whether to apply a tent
  transform to the sampled points.
  Default value: `False`.
* <b>`validate_args`</b>: Python `bool` indicating whether to validate arguments.
  Default value: `False`.
* <b>`dtype`</b>: Optional `dtype`. The `dtype` of the output `Tensor` (either
  `float32` or `float64`).
  Default value: `None` which maps to `float32`.
* <b>`name`</b>: Python `str` name prefixed to ops created by this function.
  Default value: `None` which maps to `sample_digital_net`.


#### Returns:

A `Tensor` of samples from  the Sobol sequence with `shape`
`(num_samples, dim)` where `num_samples = min(num_results,
size(sequence_indices))` and `dim = tf.shape(generating_matrices)[0]`.
