<!--
This file is generated by a tool. Do not edit directly.
For open-source contributions the docs will be updated automatically.
-->

*Last updated: 2022-05-30.*

<div itemscope itemtype="http://developers.google.com/ReferenceObject">
<meta itemprop="name" content="tf_quant_finance.rates.swap_curve_bootstrap" />
<meta itemprop="path" content="Stable" />
</div>

# tf_quant_finance.rates.swap_curve_bootstrap

<!-- Insert buttons and diff -->

<table class="tfo-notebook-buttons tfo-api" align="left">
</table>

<a target="_blank" href="https://github.com/google/tf-quant-finance/blob/master/tf_quant_finance/rates/swap_curve_bootstrap.py">View source</a>



Constructs the zero swap curve using bootstrap method.

```python
tf_quant_finance.rates.swap_curve_bootstrap(
    float_leg_start_times, float_leg_end_times, fixed_leg_start_times,
    fixed_leg_end_times, fixed_leg_cashflows, present_values,
    present_values_settlement_times=None, float_leg_daycount_fractions=None,
    fixed_leg_daycount_fractions=None, float_leg_discount_rates=None,
    float_leg_discount_times=None, fixed_leg_discount_rates=None,
    fixed_leg_discount_times=None, curve_interpolator=None,
    initial_curve_rates=None, curve_tolerance=1e-08, maximum_iterations=50,
    dtype=None, name=None
)
```



<!-- Placeholder for "Used in" -->

A zero swap curve is a function of time which gives the interest rate that
can be used to project forward rates at arbitrary `t` for the valuation of
interest rate securities (e.g. FRAs, Interest rate futures, Swaps etc.).

Suppose we have a set of `N` Interest Rate Swaps (IRS) `S_i` with increasing
expiries whose market prices are known.
Suppose also that the `i`th IRS issues cashflows at times `T_{ij}` where
`1 <= j <= n_i` and `n_i` is the number of cashflows (including expiry)
for the `i`th swap.
Denote by `T_i` the time of final payment for the `i`th swap
(hence `T_i = T_{i,n_i}`). This function estimates a set of rates `r(T_i)`
such that when these rates are interpolated (using the user specified
interpolation method) to all other cashflow times, the computed value of the
swaps matches the market value of the swaps (within some tolerance).

The algorithm implemented here uses the bootstrap method to iteratively
construct the swap curve [1].

#### Example:

The following example illustrates the usage by building an implied swap curve
from four vanilla (fixed to float) LIBOR swaps.

```python

dtype = np.float64

# Next we will set up LIBOR reset and payment times for four spot starting
# swaps with maturities 1Y, 2Y, 3Y, 4Y. The LIBOR rate spans 6M.

float_leg_start_times = [
          np.array([0., 0.5], dtype=dtype),
          np.array([0., 0.5, 1., 1.5], dtype=dtype),
          np.array([0., 0.5, 1.0, 1.5, 2.0, 2.5], dtype=dtype),
          np.array([0., 0.5, 1.0, 1.5, 2.0, 2.5, 3.0, 3.5], dtype=dtype)
      ]

float_leg_end_times = [
          np.array([0.5, 1.0], dtype=dtype),
          np.array([0.5, 1., 1.5, 2.0], dtype=dtype),
          np.array([0.5, 1.0, 1.5, 2.0, 2.5, 3.0], dtype=dtype),
          np.array([0.5, 1.0, 1.5, 2.0, 2.5, 3.0, 3.5, 4.0], dtype=dtype)
      ]

# Next we will set up start and end times for semi-annual fixed coupons.

fixed_leg_start_times = [
          np.array([0., 0.5], dtype=dtype),
          np.array([0., 0.5, 1., 1.5], dtype=dtype),
          np.array([0., 0.5, 1.0, 1.5, 2.0, 2.5], dtype=dtype),
          np.array([0., 0.5, 1.0, 1.5, 2.0, 2.5, 3.0, 3.5], dtype=dtype)
      ]

fixed_leg_end_times = [
          np.array([0.5, 1.0], dtype=dtype),
          np.array([0.5, 1., 1.5, 2.0], dtype=dtype),
          np.array([0.5, 1.0, 1.5, 2.0, 2.5, 3.0], dtype=dtype),
          np.array([0.5, 1.0, 1.5, 2.0, 2.5, 3.0, 3.5, 4.0], dtype=dtype)
      ]

# Next setup a trivial daycount for floating and fixed legs.

float_leg_daycount = [
          np.array([0.5, 0.5], dtype=dtype),
          np.array([0.5, 0.5, 0.5, 0.5], dtype=dtype),
          np.array([0.5, 0.5, 0.5, 0.5, 0.5, 0.5], dtype=dtype),
          np.array([0.5, 0.5, 0.5, 0.5, 0.5, 0.5, 0.5, 0.5], dtype=dtype)
      ]

fixed_leg_daycount = [
          np.array([0.5, 0.5], dtype=dtype),
          np.array([0.5, 0.5, 0.5, 0.5], dtype=dtype),
          np.array([0.5, 0.5, 0.5, 0.5, 0.5, 0.5], dtype=dtype),
          np.array([0.5, 0.5, 0.5, 0.5, 0.5, 0.5, 0.5, 0.5], dtype=dtype)
      ]

fixed_leg_cashflows = [
      # 1 year swap with 2.855% semi-annual fixed payments.
      np.array([-0.02855, -0.02855], dtype=dtype),
      # 2 year swap with 3.097% semi-annual fixed payments.
      np.array([-0.03097, -0.03097, -0.03097, -0.03097], dtype=dtype),
      # 3 year swap with 3.1% semi-annual fixed payments.
      np.array([-0.031, -0.031, -0.031, -0.031, -0.031, -0.031], dtype=dtype),
      # 4 year swap with 3.2% semi-annual fixed payments.
      np.array([-0.032, -0.032, -0.032, -0.032, -0.032, -0.032, -0.032,
      -0.032], dtype=dtype)
  ]

# The present values of the above IRS.
  pvs = np.array([0., 0., 0., 0.], dtype=dtype)

# Initial state of the curve.
initial_curve_rates = np.array([0.01, 0.01, 0.01, 0.01], dtype=dtype)

results = swap_curve_bootstrap(float_leg_start_times, float_leg_end_times,
                               float_leg_daycount, fixed_leg_start_times,
                               fixed_leg_end_times, fixed_leg_cashflows,
                               fixed_leg_daycount, pvs, dtype=dtype,
                               initial_curve_rates=initial_curve_rates)

#### References:

[1]: Patrick Hagan & Graeme West. Interpolation Methods for Curve
  Construction. Applied Mathematical Finance. Vol 13, No. 2, pp 89-129.
  June 2006.
  https://www.researchgate.net/publication/24071726_Interpolation_Methods_for_Curve_Construction

#### Args:


* <b>`float_leg_start_times`</b>: List of `Tensor`s. Each `Tensor` must be of rank 1
  and of the same real dtype. They may be of different sizes. Each `Tensor`
  represents the beginning of the accrual period for the forward rate which
  determines the floating payment. Each element in the list belong to a
  unique swap to be used to build the curve.
* <b>`float_leg_end_times`</b>: List of `Tensor`s. Each `Tensor` must be of rank 1 and
  and the same shape and of the same real dtype as the corresponding element
  in `float_leg_start_times`. Each `Tensor` represents the end of the
  accrual period for the forward rate which determines the floating payment.
* <b>`fixed_leg_start_times`</b>: List of `Tensor`s. Each `Tensor` must be of rank 1
  and of the same real dtype. They may be of different sizes. Each `Tensor`
  represents the beginning of the accrual period fixed coupon.
* <b>`fixed_leg_end_times`</b>: List of `Tensor`s. Each `Tensor` must be of the same
  shape and type as `fixed_leg_start_times`. Each `Tensor` represents the
  end of the accrual period for the fixed coupon.
* <b>`fixed_leg_cashflows`</b>: List of `Tensor`s. The list must be of the same length
  as the `fixed_leg_start_times`. Each `Tensor` must be of rank 1 and of the
  same dtype as the `Tensor`s in `fixed_leg_start_times`. The input contains
  fixed cashflows at each coupon payment time including notional (if any).
  The sign should be negative (positive) to indicate net outgoing (incoming)
  cashflow.
* <b>`present_values`</b>: List containing scalar `Tensor`s of the same dtype as
  elements of `fixed_leg_cashflows`. The length of the list must be the same
  as the length of `fixed_leg_cashflows`. The input contains the market
  price of the underlying instruments.
* <b>`present_values_settlement_times`</b>: List containing scalar `Tensor`s of the
  same dtype as elements of `present_values`. The length of the list must be
  the same as the length of `present_values`. The settlement times for the
  present values is the time from now when the instrument is traded to the
  time that the purchase price is actually delivered. If not supplied, then
  it is assumed that the settlement times are zero for every bond.
  Default value: `None`, which is equivalent to zero settlement times.
* <b>`float_leg_daycount_fractions`</b>: Optional list of `Tensor`s. Each `Tensor` must
  be of the same shape and type as `float_leg_start_times`. They may be of
  different sizes. Each `Tensor` represents the daycount fraction of the
  forward rate which determines the floating payment.
  Default value: `None`, If omitted the daycount fractions are computed as
  the difference between float_leg_end_times and float_leg_start_times.
* <b>`fixed_leg_daycount_fractions`</b>: Optional list of `Tensor`s. Each `Tensor` must
  be of the same shape and type as `fixed_leg_start_times`. Each `Tensor`
  represents the daycount fraction applicable for the fixed payment.
  Default value: `None`, If omitted the daycount fractions are computed as
  the difference between fixed_leg_end_times and fixed_leg_start_times.
* <b>`float_leg_discount_rates`</b>: Optional `Tensor` of the same dtype as
  `initial_discount_rates`. This input contains the continuously compounded
  discount rates the will be used to discount the floating cashflows. This
  allows the swap curve to constructed using an independent discount curve
  (e.g. OIS curve).
  Default value: `None`, in which case the cashflows are discounted using
  the curve that is being constructed.
* <b>`float_leg_discount_times`</b>: Optional `Tensor` of the same dtype and shape as
  `float_leg_discount_rates`. This input contains the times corresponding to
  the rates specified via the `float_leg_discount_rates`.
* <b>`fixed_leg_discount_rates`</b>: Optional `Tensor` of the same dtype as
  `initial_discount_rates`. This input contains the continuously compounded
  discount rates the will be used to discount the fixed cashflows. This
  allows the swap curve to constructed using an independent discount curve
  (e.g. OIS curve).
  Default value: `None`, in which case the cashflows are discounted using
  the curve that is being constructed.
* <b>`fixed_leg_discount_times`</b>: Optional `Tensor` of the same dtype and shape as
  `fixed_leg_discount_rates`. This input contains the times corresponding to
  the rates specified via the `fixed_leg_discount_rates`.
* <b>`curve_interpolator`</b>: Optional Python callable used to interpolate the zero
  swap rates at cashflow times. It should have the following interface:
  yi = curve_interpolator(xi, x, y)
  `x`, `y`, 'xi', 'yi' are all `Tensors` of real dtype. `x` and `y` are the
  sample points and values (respectively) of the function to be
  interpolated. `xi` are the points at which the interpolation is
  desired and `yi` are the corresponding interpolated values returned by the
  function.
  Default value: `None`, which maps to linear interpolation.
* <b>`initial_curve_rates`</b>: Optional `Tensor` of the same dtype and shape as
  `present_values`. The starting guess for the discount rates used to
  initialize the iterative procedure.
  Default value: `None`. If not supplied, the yields to maturity for the
    bonds is used as the initial value.
* <b>`curve_tolerance`</b>: Optional positive scalar `Tensor` of same dtype as
  elements of `bond_cashflows`. The absolute tolerance for terminating the
  iterations used to fit the rate curve. The iterations are stopped when the
  estimated discounts at the expiry times of the bond_cashflows change by a
  amount smaller than `discount_tolerance` in an iteration.
  Default value: 1e-8.
* <b>`maximum_iterations`</b>: Optional positive integer `Tensor`. The maximum number
  of iterations permitted when fitting the curve.
  Default value: 50.
* <b>`dtype`</b>: `tf.Dtype`. If supplied the dtype for the (elements of)
  `float_leg_start_times`, and `fixed_leg_start_times`.
  Default value: None which maps to the default dtype inferred by
  TensorFlow.
* <b>`name`</b>: Python str. The name to give to the ops created by this function.
  Default value: `None` which maps to 'swap_curve'.


#### Returns:


* <b>`curve_builder_result`</b>: An instance of `SwapCurveBuilderResult` containing the
  following attributes.
  times: Rank 1 real `Tensor`. Times for the computed rates. These
    are chosen to be the expiry times of the supplied instruments.
  rates: Rank 1 `Tensor` of the same dtype as `times`.
    The inferred zero rates.
  discount_factor: Rank 1 `Tensor` of the same dtype as `times`.
    The inferred discount factors.
  initial_rates: Rank 1 `Tensor` of the same dtype as `times`. The
    initial guess for the rates.
  converged: Scalar boolean `Tensor`. Whether the procedure converged.
    The procedure is said to have converged when the maximum absolute
    difference in the discount factors from one iteration to the next falls
    below the `discount_tolerance`.
  failed: Scalar boolean `Tensor`. Whether the procedure failed. Procedure
    may fail either because a NaN value was encountered for the discount
    rates or the discount factors.
  iterations: Scalar int32 `Tensor`. Number of iterations performed.


#### Raises:


* <b>`ValueError`</b>: If the initial state of the curve is not
supplied to the function.