<!--
This file is generated by a tool. Do not edit directly.
For open-source contributions the docs will be updated automatically.
-->

*Last updated: 2022-05-30.*

<div itemscope itemtype="http://developers.google.com/ReferenceObject">
<meta itemprop="name" content="tf_quant_finance.math.gradients" />
<meta itemprop="path" content="Stable" />
</div>

# tf_quant_finance.math.gradients

<!-- Insert buttons and diff -->

<table class="tfo-notebook-buttons tfo-api" align="left">
</table>

<a target="_blank" href="https://github.com/google/tf-quant-finance/blob/master/tf_quant_finance/math/gradient.py">View source</a>



Computes the gradients of `func_or_y` wrt to `*xs`.

```python
tf_quant_finance.math.gradients(
    func_or_y, xs, output_gradients=None, use_gradient_tape=False,
    unconnected_gradients=None, name=None
)
```



<!-- Placeholder for "Used in" -->


#### Args:


* <b>`func_or_y`</b>: Either a `Tensor` connected to the input `x` or a Python callable
   accepting one `Tensor` of shape of `x` and returning a `Tensor` of any
   shape. The function whose gradient is to be computed. If eagerly
   executing, can only be a callable, i.e., one should not supply a Tensor
   in eager mode.
 xs: Python list of parameters of `f` for which to differentiate. (Can also
   be single `Tensor`.)
 output_gradients: A `Tensor` or list of `Tensor`s the same size as the
   result `ys = f(*xs)` and holding the gradients computed for each `y` in
   `ys`. This argument is forwarded to the underlying gradient implementation
   (i.e., either the `grad_ys` argument of `tf.gradients` or the
   `output_gradients` argument of `tf.GradientTape.gradient`).
   Default value: `None` which maps to a ones-like `Tensor` of `ys`.
 use_gradient_tape: Python `bool` indicating that `tf.GradientTape` should be
   used regardless of `tf.executing_eagerly()` status.
   Default value: `False`.
 unconnected_gradients: An enum `tf.UnconnectedGradients` which specifies the
   gradient value returned when the given input tensors are unconnected.
   Default value: `None`, which maps to `tf.UnconnectedGradients.NONE`.
 name: Python `str` name prefixed to ops created by this function.
   Default value: `None` (i.e., 'gradients').


#### Returns:

A `Tensor` with the gradient of `y` wrt each of `xs` or a list of `Tensor`s
if `xs` is a list.
