<!--
This file is generated by a tool. Do not edit directly.
For open-source contributions the docs will be updated automatically.
-->

*Last updated: 2022-05-30.*

<div itemscope itemtype="http://developers.google.com/ReferenceObject">
<meta itemprop="name" content="tf_quant_finance.math.value_and_gradient" />
<meta itemprop="path" content="Stable" />
</div>

# tf_quant_finance.math.value_and_gradient

<!-- Insert buttons and diff -->

<table class="tfo-notebook-buttons tfo-api" align="left">
</table>

<a target="_blank" href="https://github.com/google/tf-quant-finance/blob/master/tf_quant_finance/math/gradient.py">View source</a>



Computes `f(*xs)` and its gradients wrt to `*xs`.

```python
tf_quant_finance.math.value_and_gradient(
    f, xs, output_gradients=None, use_gradient_tape=False,
    unconnected_gradients=None, name=None
)
```



<!-- Placeholder for "Used in" -->


#### Args:


* <b>`f`</b>: Python `callable` to be differentiated. If `f` returns a scalar, this
  scalar will be differentiated. If `f` returns a tensor or list of tensors,
  by default a scalar will be computed by adding all their values to produce
  a single scalar. If desired, the tensors can be elementwise multiplied by
  the tensors passed as the `dy` keyword argument to the returned gradient
  function.
* <b>`xs`</b>: Python list of parameters of `f` for which to differentiate. (Can also
  be single `Tensor`.)
* <b>`output_gradients`</b>: A `Tensor` or list of `Tensor`s the same size as the
  result `ys = f(*xs)` and holding the gradients computed for each `y` in
  `ys`. This argument is forwarded to the underlying gradient implementation
  (i.e., either the `grad_ys` argument of `tf.gradients` or the
  `output_gradients` argument of `tf.GradientTape.gradient`).
* <b>`use_gradient_tape`</b>: Python `bool` indicating that `tf.GradientTape` should be
  used regardless of `tf.executing_eagerly()` status.
  Default value: `False`.
* <b>`unconnected_gradients`</b>: An enum `tf.UnconnectedGradients` which specifies the
  gradient value returned when the given input tensors are unconnected.
  Default value: `None`, which maps to `tf.UnconnectedGradients.NONE`.
* <b>`name`</b>: Python `str` name prefixed to ops created by this function.
  Default value: `None` (i.e., `'value_and_gradient'`).


#### Returns:

A tuple of two elements. The first one is a `Tensor` representing the value
of the function at `xs` and the second one is either a `Tensor` or a list of
`Tensor`s representing the gradient of `f(*xs)` wrt `xs`.

* <b>`y`</b>: `y = f(*xs)`.
* <b>`dydx`</b>: Gradient of `y` wrt each of `xs`.