<!--
This file is generated by a tool. Do not edit directly.
For open-source contributions the docs will be updated automatically.
-->

*Last updated: 2022-05-30.*

<div itemscope itemtype="http://developers.google.com/ReferenceObject">
<meta itemprop="name" content="tf_quant_finance.datetime.PeriodicSchedule" />
<meta itemprop="path" content="Stable" />
<meta itemprop="property" content="__init__"/>
<meta itemprop="property" content="dates"/>
</div>

# tf_quant_finance.datetime.PeriodicSchedule

<!-- Insert buttons and diff -->

<table class="tfo-notebook-buttons tfo-api" align="left">
</table>

<a target="_blank" href="https://github.com/google/tf-quant-finance/blob/master/tf_quant_finance/datetime/schedules.py">View source</a>



Defines an array of dates specified by a regular schedule.

```python
tf_quant_finance.datetime.PeriodicSchedule(
    *, start_date, end_date, tenor, holiday_calendar=None,
    roll_convention=tf_quant_finance.datetime.BusinessDayConvention.NONE,
    backward=False, end_of_month=False
)
```



<!-- Placeholder for "Used in" -->


#### Args:


* <b>`start_date`</b>: `DateTensor`. Defines the lower boundary of schedule. If
  `backward=True` must be broadcastable to `end_date`, otherwise has
  arbitrary shape.
* <b>`end_date`</b>: `DateTensor`. Defines the upper boundary of the schedule.
  If `backward=False` must be broadcastable to `start_date`, otherwise has
  arbitrary shape.
* <b>`tenor`</b>: `PeriodTensor`. Defines the frequency of the schedule. Must
  be broadcastable to `start_date` if `backward=False`, and to `end_date`
  if `backward=True`.
* <b>`holiday_calendar`</b>: `dates.HolidayCalendar`. If `None`, the dates in the
  schedule will not be rolled to business days.
* <b>`roll_convention`</b>: BusinessDayConvention. Defines how dates in the schedule
  should be rolled to business days if they fall on holidays. Ignored if
  `holiday_calendar = None`.
  Default value: BusinessDayConvention.NONE (i.e. no rolling).
* <b>`backward`</b>: Python `bool`. Whether to build the schedule from the
  `start_date` moving forwards or from the `end_date` and moving
  backwards.
* <b>`end_of_month`</b>: Python `bool`. If `True`, shifts all dates in schedule to
  the ends of corresponding months, if `start_date` or `end_date` (
  depending on `backward`) is at the end of a month. The shift is applied
  before applying `roll_convention`. In the batched case, only those
  schedules in a batch, whose corresponding `start_date` (or `end_date`)
  are at ends of months, will be shifted.

#### Attributes:

* <b>`end_date`</b>
* <b>`end_of_month`</b>
* <b>`generate_backwards`</b>:   Returns whether the schedule is generated from the end date.
* <b>`holiday_calendar`</b>
* <b>`roll_convention`</b>
* <b>`start_date`</b>
* <b>`tenor`</b>


## Methods

<h3 id="dates"><code>dates</code></h3>

<a target="_blank" href="https://github.com/google/tf-quant-finance/blob/master/tf_quant_finance/datetime/schedules.py">View source</a>

```python
dates()
```

Returns the dates as computed from the schedule as a DateTensor.

Constructs the date schedule from the supplied data. For more details see
the initializer docstring.

#### Returns:

`DateTensor` of rank one more than `start_date` or `end_date`
(depending on `backwards`), representing schedules for each element
of the input.




