<!--
This file is generated by a tool. Do not edit directly.
For open-source contributions the docs will be updated automatically.
-->

*Last updated: 2022-05-30.*

<div itemscope itemtype="http://developers.google.com/ReferenceObject">
<meta itemprop="name" content="tf_quant_finance.rates.hagan_west.monotone_convex" />
<meta itemprop="path" content="Stable" />
</div>

# Module: tf_quant_finance.rates.hagan_west.monotone_convex

<!-- Insert buttons and diff -->

<table class="tfo-notebook-buttons tfo-api" align="left">
</table>

<a target="_blank" href="https://github.com/google/tf-quant-finance/blob/master/tf_quant_finance/rates/hagan_west/monotone_convex.py">View source</a>



The monotone convex interpolation method.


The monotone convex method is a scheme devised by Hagan and West (Ref [1]). It
is a commonly used method to interpolate interest rate yield curves. For
more details see Refs [1, 2].

It is important to point out that the monotone convex method *does not* solve
the standard interpolation problem but a modified one as described below.

Suppose we are given a strictly increasing sequence of scalars (which we will
refer to as time) `[t_1, t_2, ... t_n]` and a set of values
`[f_1, f_2, ... f_n]`.
The aim is to find a function `f(t)` defined on the interval `[0, t_n]` which
satisfies (in addition to continuity and positivity conditions, see Section 6
of Ref [2] for more details) the following

```
  Integral[f(u), t_{i-1} <= u <= t_i] = f_i,  with t_0 = 0

```

In the context of interest rate curve building, `f(t)` corresponds to the
instantaneous forward rate at time `t` and the `f_i` correspond to the
discrete forward rates that apply to the time period `[t_{i-1}, t_i]`.

This implementation of the method currently supports batching along the
interpolation times but not along the interpolated curves (i.e. it is possible
to evaluate the `f(t)` for `t` as a vector of times but not build multiple
curves at the same time).


#### References:

[1]: Patrick Hagan & Graeme West. Interpolation Methods for Curve Construction.
  Applied Mathematical Finance. Vol 13, No. 2, pp 89-129. June 2006.
  https://www.researchgate.net/publication/24071726_Interpolation_Methods_for_Curve_Construction
[2]: Patrick Hagan & Graeme West. Methods for Constructing a Yield Curve.
  Wilmott Magazine, pp. 70-81. May 2008.

## Functions

[`diff(...)`](../../../tf_quant_finance/math/diff.md): Computes the difference between elements of an array at a regular interval.

[`interpolate(...)`](../../../tf_quant_finance/rates/hagan_west/monotone_convex/interpolate.md): Performs the monotone convex interpolation.

[`interpolate_forward_rate(...)`](../../../tf_quant_finance/rates/hagan_west/monotone_convex/interpolate_forward_rate.md): Interpolates instantaneous forward rate to supplied times .

[`interpolate_yields(...)`](../../../tf_quant_finance/rates/hagan_west/monotone_convex/interpolate_yields.md): Interpolates the yield curve to the supplied times.

