<!--
This file is generated by a tool. Do not edit directly.
For open-source contributions the docs will be updated automatically.
-->

*Last updated: 2020-04-28.*

<div itemscope itemtype="http://developers.google.com/ReferenceObject">
<meta itemprop="name" content="tf_quant_finance.experimental.dates.create_holiday_calendar" />
<meta itemprop="path" content="Stable" />
</div>

# tf_quant_finance.experimental.dates.create_holiday_calendar

<!-- Insert buttons and diff -->

<table class="tfo-notebook-buttons tfo-api" align="left">
</table>

<a target="_blank" href="https://github.com/google/tf-quant-finance/blob/master/tf_quant_finance/experimental/dates/holiday_calendar_factory.py">View source</a>



Creates a holiday calendar.

```python
tf_quant_finance.experimental.dates.create_holiday_calendar(
    weekend_mask=None, holidays=None, start_year=None, end_year=None
)
```



<!-- Placeholder for "Used in" -->

Note: providing bounds for the calendar, i.e. `holidays` and/or `start_year`,
`end_year` yields a better-performing calendar.

#### Args:


* <b>`weekend_mask`</b>: Boolean `Tensor` of 7 elements one for each day of the week
  starting with Monday at index 0. A `True` value indicates the day is
  considered a weekend day and a `False` value implies a week day.
  Default value: None which means no weekends are applied.
* <b>`holidays`</b>: Defines the holidays that are added to the weekends defined by
  `weekend_mask`. An instance of <a href="../../../tf_quant_finance/experimental/dates/DateTensor.md"><code>dates.DateTensor</code></a> or an object
  convertible to `DateTensor`.
  Default value: None which means no holidays other than those implied by
  the weekends (if any).
* <b>`start_year`</b>: Integer giving the earliest year this calendar includes. If
  `holidays` is specified, then `start_year` and `end_year` are ignored,
  and the boundaries are derived from `holidays`.
  Default value: None which means start year is inferred from `holidays`, if
  present.
* <b>`end_year`</b>: Integer giving the latest year this calendar includes. If
  `holidays` is specified, then `start_year` and `end_year` are ignored,
  and the boundaries are derived from `holidays`.
  Default value: None which means start year is inferred from `holidays`, if
  present.


#### Returns:

A HolidayCalendar instance.
